# The Best B2B Partnership Strategy for 2026

**Expert:** B2B Playbook
**Video ID:** Lg-TPMJHrTw
**YouTube URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lg-TPMJHrTw
**Transcript Length:** 47196 characters

---

## Transcript

the acquisition costs are lower for them because of this brand trust, right? People know it, they see it, they trust it. So, there's far less hesitation when they click that button um because they know the brand. There's also, you know, the cross-selling that a lot of the big brands do, especially the supermarkets do. You know, they have incentives points, schemes, and all of that kind of stuff. What about staying visible in front of like the actual HR people or partnership managers? How do you handle that? Is that really important to keep them happy? >> You know, maintaining that relationship is I wouldn't say it's more important than signing them up, but it's it's certainly equally as important because once the ink's on the on the on the dotted line, the contract's been signed, what have what have we achieved at that point? Zero. What revenue have we bought in? Zero. What what new policy holders have we signed up? Zero. The job is is just starting then. email, SMS, all of that kind of stuff is important, but it's the personalization that really makes it win for us so that they're not just feeling like they're getting a mass bulk email that's talking to a million people. It's literally targeted to them and their needs. Welcome back to the B2B playbook where we believe that great go to market is built on people, not platforms. In competitive categories like insurance, most brands fight the same battle. They pile into paid channels. They bid on the same keywords. And unless you're one of the big players, you get smashed by companies that can pay more per click and outspend you on brand. So, the real question isn't how do we optimize our ads better. It's where does the leverage actually exist if you're not the biggest brand in the room. That's why today's conversation matters. I'm joined by Alex Bedwani, the founder of Pets on Me. Now, on the surface, Pets on Me looks like a consumer brand, but under the hood, a big part of their growth has come from partnerships, B2B relationships, and activation through trusted organizations. So, this episode, if you're not insurance, don't worry. It's not just about pet insurance. It's about what happens when BTOC economics are pretty tough to scale cuz there's big big brands around and you're forced to think a little bit differently about distribution, trust, and return. So, we're going to unpack why competing head-on in B TOC can be a losing game in competitive spaces, why partnerships are often misunderstood, and how activation is what really drives results in these partnerships. Alex, thank you so much for joining us. >> You're very welcome. I'm excited for our chat. I hope your listeners uh find it uh interesting and and can take something away from it. Oh, look. I know from act precall that they're already absolutely going to love this. And I think many are facing probably the situation that you found yourself in when you first started Pets on Me, which is you're playing against some pretty heavy hitters, some big brands, people who can pay so much more to acquire a customer than you can. And so that's why I found your approach really, really interesting, which I'm excited to dive into. But before we do that, Alex, I'd love to know, look, insurance companies are everywhere. Why did Australia need pets on me? Maybe just explain a little bit about what it is exactly and yeah, why you really saw the need for it. >> Yeah, absolutely. Look, pet insurance for far too long in Australia was dominated by one major player. Um, and that player had uh n plus% of the market, pretty much every brand in Australia. Um, and no one knew that. So, people thought that they were, you know, signing up because it had a charity name behind it or or signing up because it had a supermarket or whatever behind it. Um, but little did they know it was just one big um one big brand and they essentially had a monopoly in the market. And and for such a long time um I I didn't like the idea of that. I've been impet myself pretty much my whole my whole career um in some way, shape, or form. And um I always wanted to get into the insurance side of things because I thought it needed to be shaken up a little bit. Um and without going into too much detail um it was actually during the pandemic when the best ideas tend to happen um I have um a part of our business is services sitting walking and minding and as you can imagine during the pandemic that went went down went pretty belly up um we thought people would still need their dogs walked but no one did because everyone was walking their own dog. That's when I had the time to really um decide and and to to get this off the ground in terms of pets on me pet insurance and and sort of shake things up. So, um, I think they needed it because, um, we're pet people. It's it's really what we believe in, what we're passionate about. We're not just some big insurance company that, you know, only looks at the numbers. >> Uh, so your pet people, I mean, we spoke just before this call. I asked you like what your background, ethnicity is, and you said you're Egyptian, and there's French heritage there, too, and Australian as well. I mean, my background's Greek. We had no pets. Um, you know, our driveway is concrete. uh there's nowhere for them to play around and stuff. You must have had pets growing up, did you? >> Yeah, it's a it's a it's actually a really funny story and one I love to share. Um I was I was about 10 years old. Um and I it's the age-old story you hear all the time with with um with children. Ask mom and dad for a pet. Um I wanted a dog. I knew exactly, you know, what I wanted, where I wanted, and they said, "No way. You're not having a pet. You'll never look after it." And so I came up with this idea that I'd mind other people's pets. Um, and they were like, "Yeah, no worries. Let's give let's let him have give that a crack. He'll mind one or two dogs and he'll be over it next week." Um, that was when I was 10. When I was by the time I was 12, I'd minded a hundred different dogs. Um, and it was so big that I needed to start subcontracting it out to friends and family. So that that's that's where it all began. My passion um for pets and and dogs specifically started when I was 10 years old. That's a very very cool origin story and you mentioned that co really forced you to to rethink certain aspects of the business and double down on insurance. Now I want to get into I suppose what your approach was first there because we spoke in our pre-call about how I suppose when most people enter something like insurance B TOC is the immediate obvious thing that we try but it can be tough to compete against the big guys just on B TOC alone. Is that right? >> Exactly right. pet insurance um is is pretty much entirely or certainly before we got involved is pretty much entirely B to uh B TOC. Um you know it's it's the age-old sort of typical marketing mix that that that we all know. Um but we knew we were never going to win in that space. Um we're competing with household brand brands, very highprofile brands, people that know them very well, a lot of brand trust. Um, and we knew that we weren't going to win if we were just going to go down that path. Um, so that's when we started to look at the the other the other opt the other option, you know, doing something different. Um, and that was going down the the B2B path. So, we still have the B TOC side of things, of course, but the B2B part is also a very important part of what we do. And before we get into that B2B side, just so our listeners and viewers really understand on the B TOC side, I mean, we said that you're up against really big brands, but the reality of that is they're able to pay normally more to acquire a customer, right? But also like the conversion rate tends to be better because their brand is is better known. Is that what you were up against that just they were able to pay so much more than you were? >> Absolutely. You know, on a on a CPA basis, this they're happy to spend more than we're than we're comfortable spending. But also, you know, the the acquisition costs are lower for them because of this brand trust, right? People know it, they see it, they trust it. So, there's far less hesitation when they hit click that button um because they know the brand. Um and then there's also, you know, the cross-selling that a lot of the big brands do, especially the supermarkets do. You know, they have incentives point schemes and all of that kind of stuff. So, yeah, we absolutely saw um that they were spending far more and probably acquiring less, I would I would imagine. you know, the budgets for these big brands during the the peak seasons, um, they can be spending half a million dollars a day plus. >> Yeah. I mean, >> we're not quite there, unfortunately. >> It's it's enormous. And I mean, for many of them, depending on, you know, where this particular product line fits into their wider business because they probably have a lot of other arms to their business, could even be a loss leader for some of them and they could use that data to upsell them and other things. So, they are able That's definitely the case. >> Yeah, there you go. >> Yeah, you're spot on. It's a lot of the brands actually um they're not pet insurance companies. They just literally white label another brand and and it's essentially just a a marketing tool um where they sort of take a percentage um for the of of the transaction and and do nothing. So, specifically supermarkets and whatnot, they're not they're obviously not insurance companies. They're just using their massive marketing database um and they're putting their name on it. So um you know but people don't realize that and you know I guess it's it's um I I'm always happy to sort of share that because it's um the fact is we're people and and it's all that we do and it's what we believe in. So it's very different at what point well first of all I think it'd be really helpful for our listeners and viewers to understand Alex what does a B2B angle look like for Pets on Me? Like what does that mean? What are you guys actually doing to take a businessto business approach to grow the to grow pets on me? for sure. Um, if you'd asked me that question when we started it, the answer would have been very simply, I have no idea. Um, because we went into it very blind and and and to give it a go. But, um, it's it's twofold. It's working with corporate partners, professional associations predominantly. There are other channels as well um, you know, things like affiliates and whatnot, but predominantly it's professional associations and and and mid to large scale corporates um, whereby we're offering employee benefits. um discount or preferential pricing and and also um working with members to give them an exclusively more personalized service than if they were just to go to another insurer directly. So what we do is is really try to take the the time to understand the membership group or the employment group. Um and and tailor something that's specifically built for them. Um, and the reason why we do it so well is because we really we really take the time, we really invest in it and and and we really now understand what's important to a pet owner. Um, and in some ways it's somewhat different to someone who just comes to us directly on our website. Um, so we we tailored that experience depending on where they've come from through our B2B channels. Um, like I said, you know, as an example, the the aid a midsize corporate that we might be partnering with, um, they may have dogs in their offices. So, we'll do something within the office just for the dogs. Um, as an example, um, and that kind of stuff really works and really resonates because they see the face behind the insurance company. >> Yeah, I like the the very clever marketing initiatives and and I want to get into those a little bit later, but just to make it very clear for our listeners. So those partnerships you form, they might be with like a association, industry body or maybe even a large corporation themselves, right? So I think one that you mentioned that you do work with was the Australian Property Institute. Was that right? >> Yep. >> So you basically partner with key people at the Australian Property Institute because Alex, you've done your research and you know that a lot of people that are members there probably are pet owners as well. And then you work with them to then get exposed to their members and hopefully they uptake your insurance offering. And what's the incentive for these organizations to partner with you? >> Yeah, I think the incentive for them and this is the challenge for us to make sure that we show that is that we're adding a it's a value added benefit to the member or the employee. um because uh obviously they're not they're not paying anything for this and we're not paying anything typically um in that respect. There's no sort of fee exchanged but the association or the the employer wants to make sure that whatever they're they're doing with us is of a benefit to their employee uh and also is not going to damage the time tarnish of course the reputation of the business or or the organization or whatever it is. So, it's essentially needs to be something that they get the employee or the or the the member um that they cannot get if they're not an employee or member. So, they can't go straight to our what if whatever we're offering them is better than what they're getting direct from the from our website as an example or somewhere else. And that's because they're a member or an employee. >> It's a great way to go in and sell to multiples. Alex, I'm curious how you first had the idea of doing this. Um, so once you got into the the pet insurance game when co happened and you started to look for this sort of B2B angle was what was the inspiration behind it? What made you start to think to do this? What what I can tell you and and I'm sure a lot of your listeners can resonate to this is these days large corporates are using so much more than just dollars to attract talent to attract top talent. Um money is one thing of course but it's not everything and people prospective employees are attracted to the full employee package. Um, and that, you know, can often mean things like discounted gym memberships, free gym memberships, health insurance for human human health insurance for themselves and their families. Um, you know, some might do mobile phones, cars, whatever. Um, it was a natural progression for me as a pet lover and as a pet owner to think, well, why aren't they offering something for their pets? Because pets are a part of the family. Pets are your fur children, just like your human kids. And typically these corporates were offering human health insurance not just to you but to your partner and to your kids but not the pet. So for me it seemed like a no-brainer that why the why isn't the pet a part of this and especially now where as I mentioned as we all know pets are becoming more and more a part of the family but also in the in the workplace they're becoming more and more a part of that more employee uh employment workplaces are seeing more pets. It's on the It's on the rise because the large corporates have very quickly seen the benefits to having pets in the workplace in terms of lower stress, um, more efficiency, and just overall generally much happier employees. So, for me, it was a bit of a no-brainer. >> I really like that angle that pets are part of the family, too. >> So, why shouldn't your company be trying to, you know, provide a better avenue to protect yourself and your pets as well? That's that's really really cool. I'd love to just take it back a step again and look into Alex, how did you first start to identify who the right partners might be for Pets on Me in terms of this B2B partnership angle? Um, and how did you go when you when you first started trying to create some of these partnerships? >> That was the real hard part. Um it was, you know, sort of a lot of trial and error because um you know, no one had ever done this before and typically the people that we're talking to are often, you know, they're called partnership managers typically or they're working within an HR department or whatever. Um they're not really used to getting a call from someone like me. Um and some of the really bigger associations specifically will want um money exchange. they want you to pay for or sponsor something in some way, you know, whether it be in a a conference or a newsletter or whatever, which when we started out that wasn't even on the table because we just didn't have the budgets to do that. Um, so it was a lot of trial and error. Um but what I came to realize is the ones the the groups that were already doing some sort of benefits um they were definitely more open to it to th to those larger corporates that pretty much had no employee benefits apart from you know the the very basic. So we um we quickly found out the ones that worked at ones that didn't. that didn't make it any easier because then essentially it's a sales call, right? I'm calling to try and sell something, albeit for no money and to offer benefit to to um the organization that I'm calling, but that's not how they look at it, right? They look at it from a gatekeeper's perspective as like with their backup that they've got to protect their brand, that they're not going to get screwed over and all of that kind of stuff. So even though I felt I was going in there with a great value ad that cost them nothing that almost required them to do nothing but it gave me immediate upside. If only I could if that if only life was that easy. But when you say that to someone it's all too good to be true, right? So we had to take it a little bit of a slower um you know we had to go left and right a couple of times um for help to to help them see the longer term benefits. So to short answer, George, it wasn't easy and and it's never easy. But you know what? I really believe that if it's um if it's not easy, is it not it's not worthwhile, right? Like the the most important things that we do um are the ones that are usually the most difficult and the most challenging and and they reap the best rewards. So um persistence beats resistance in this instance. And in your case, once you sort of defined the uh companies, associations that you'd love to partner with, did you start to make a list of who the actual HR people were or partnership managers were? >> Contacts. We built a bit of a black book um definitely of who they are. Uh um and you know it took several conversations often face to face but yeah we were we were constantly you know building up a book and and obviously treating it like a bit of a sales process because essentially that's what it is um to to get it over the line. Um but then we um as as I've sort of always preaching within within the team is it's an ongoing thing. It's not just about um you know signing that partnership contract and then it's done, everything's great and we just start kicking goals. It's a long-term project that requires a really big time investment from our side and somewhat of a time investment from the partner's side. They've got to they've got to want this to work. Um, and so that that in itself is a bit of a challenge because, you know, does that does that person who we're dealing with really want to, you know, have another uh another thing to deal with on their on of their day or another another headache, so to speak, when they've got a million other things that they've got to worry about. Um, but yeah, it really does require ongoing management and support and and and keeping top of mind, I guess, because as soon as you've forgotten about, then they're on to something else within, you know, the the employee benefits programs that they offer that's more fun or or newer or or potentially that they think may be more interesting. I guess the luxury that we have as we're talking about dogs and cats and and it's a really easy and fun thing to talk about than, you know, a boring gym membership, for example. So did that help you get cut through initially when you would try and absolutely >> these partnership managers or HR people? Yeah, >> of course. If we had a dog lover on the other line of the phone, it makes it much easier. Um and you know, we know that pets in Australia, there's about half the roughly half the households in Australia have a pet. So pretty good strike rate when you look at it like that. Um but yeah, it's a much easier conversation, right? And then um you know we can do all sorts of fun things um with with the with the group that we're partnering with with the organization that we're partnering with whether it be competitions or anything related to the the the dogs within that organization. Um is really exciting. It's fun. It's different. It's unique. Um and it's left, you know, it's the biggest thing is it's left of center. It's something that typically has never been done before within the team um that we're talking to. And if it means that they can bring their dogs to work another extra day or if they get a benefit that they weren't getting when they weren't work if they're not working with that company well then everyone's winning in my perspective. So I think you know working with corporate partners from a be a B2B perspective is um definitely worth entertaining but you've just really got to think about the angle what's the upside for the employee or the member and also for the organization as a whole. Um, and then you know, obviously they're going to be thinking things like brand reputation and how does this potentially impact their their brand. >> It it's a great angle and it really hits home with me because we work closely with a um a CRO sales expert Adam Manderovich who actually used this same method but back for fitness first about 15 20 years ago and I think the first Yeah. So he was the first to take it from like directly BTO to C approach to this B2B TOC approach where originally like they were just trained to as soon as someone signed up make them give them a list of you know friends they would call them try and look for referrals. Uh he then went in to like their um key data person said give us who our best um like members are show me where they work. He would then call in to HR, partnership managers, whoever it was, ask them what kind of, you know, benefits they get for their employees, uh, when it comes to fitness and health. And that would just be a great in for that conversation. Then he would go in there, do like a live presentation, and he was signing 30, 40 people like on the spot, doing multiple of those a week versus like doing this one by one by one. And so he always talks about like how to commercialize sort of that uh B2B TOC angle and this is exactly what you're doing as well like 15 20 years later um in a space that's really really exciting and perhaps now there's a lot more people who are starting to take that angle maybe HR and partnership managers inboxes and phones are a little more busy than they used to be 15 20 years ago. You said staying top of mind and being visible is very important. I want to get into that on the actual like employee and members side. But before that, what about staying visible in front of like the actual HR people or partnership managers? How do you handle that? Is that really important to keep them happy? Do you have any tactics that you use to do that? >> Yeah, I I think it's um you know, absolutely there is usually a key decision maker somewhere in that HR team that you need to be regularly in contact with. And when I say regular, it's not it's not a weekly thing. It's probably, you know, two or three times a year. Um, and then depending on the size of the team, you might be dealing with someone lower in the team more often. Um, but it's just about maintaining that relationship and just picking up the phone and saying, "Hey, you know, we haven't done anything exciting in a while. I'm just wondering what you what you guys have on the agenda for um for your team over the next, you know, 6 months. Is there any way we can get involved to have make things a little bit more fun or a little bit more different or a little bit more unique?" Um, so yeah, that that you know, maintaining that relationship is I wouldn't say it's more important than signing them up, but it's it's certainly equally as important because once the ink's on the on the on the dotted line, the contract's been signed, what have what have we achieved at that point? Zero. What revenue have we brought in? Zero. What what new policy holders have we signed up? Zero. So the job is is just starting then. I would say it's, you know, it's it's 10% of the way there then, you know, because the hard work now starts um to actually convert. Um and and so that's why I'm so emphas heavily emphasizing the importance of of maintaining that relationship and and and really keeping in keeping up contact. I just really quickly want to draw draw tail back really quickly to the gym membership example because it's a really interesting one and it sort of ties into what we're talking about now is why why did that work when when you know this guy went as a gym owner to into those um large scale corporates. The reason why it worked is because of how important wellness is for employers these days. We know that it's really important to have fit, healthy staff that aren't going to be calling in sick every day, that aren't going to be, you know, for whatever reason, unwell and not able to work. So, it's in the employer's best interest for a healthy team member team member base, right? So, what does that mean? It's a no-brainer to bring in someone gym memberships. Um, if we can if we can either offer them and and the employer pays for it or even it's discounted, there's a win-win. There's zero downside. And that's when a partnership really works well. when the the employer or the membership organization sees some sort of benefit and the employee and of course the supplier being asked when there's a three-way win there then then you're set up for success and that's how the best deals are are made in my opinion. >> No, it it it makes a lot of sense. It's a great it's a great approach and is it one that the the big players are using as well? Like are the big insurance companies trying to do this too or is it because they can afford to do it the more direct to consumer way that they're not bothering? >> Some are. I wouldn't say it's a big play by any means. Um do do uh the big insurers go down this path? Yeah, they do. Um but um they is it a big part of what they do? Probably not. And I think partially is maybe because of the the broker model, you know, where a lot of insurance is sold these days via brokers. Um, PET is not is not one because it's such a it's a generally, you know, a relatively lowc cost product. So there's not much point in a broker offering it from a from a kickback perspective or a commission perspective. But I think, you know, most insuranceances um are done through a broker network. You know, you go and see a broker um and especially if it's a you know, a high value product or something that you're looking to insure. So yeah, no, the the answer to that is typically it's not a big part of what they do, >> right? Okay. Just going back to um actually connecting with and getting these uh corporates or associations to sign on the dotted line, are there certain things that you needed to have in place for them to take you seriously? Was there a moment where they asked for certain things and you're a bit like, "Oh, damn. I maybe I don't have those yet." And you just scurry away and do it quickly. >> Yeah. from a due diligence perspective, certainly the bigger ones and of course less so to the smaller ones, but they'll all do it to some extent is they will want to carry out due diligence on you because they're partnering with you, right? Um and if you're a dodgy operator, you know, they're guilt they are guilty by association often and and so they're very, you know, the bigger guys especially are very protective of their brands understandably. Um, you know, so the basics of course you things like, you know, they're going to want to see public liability insurance and and all that kind of stuff, but then they're just going to do the basic tests of you seeing who we are online and and checking out who we are as a brand and and maybe they'll ask someone in their team if they've ever heard of us and that and that kind of stuff. But, you know, as with as we all do when we've just heard a new brand, but we're unsure, the very bare minimum they're going to do is a quick, you know, two-minute test online, a Google search or a chatbt search or whatever it is to to to try and uncover something. Um, definitely. So, um, and then in terms of more detailed due diligence, some of the bigger ones will, you know, really want to look under the hood in more detail and understand how long we've been around, you know, how viable we are, that we're not going to go belly up next month, um, after investing all this kind of time in in in a partnership like this. So, yeah, there's a lot of due diligence. Um, but, you know, I don't think it's anything that's that your listeners wouldn't be able to handle, for sure. >> And how did you find all that information out? Was that just through conversations and error? >> Trial and error. >> Conversations. Yeah. Being asked for it basically. I wasn't expecting a lot of it. For sure. >> Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. I mean, that's probably the only way to learn, right? Unless you kind of get on the front foot and even ask like if we were to partner, you know, what do we need to have in place and explicitly ask them at the outset. But I mean, you know, when you're in the seat, you're just learning as you're going, right? And so that's normally a really really good way to do it. Um you said that members converting like or like activating actually taking up insurance policies is obviously the other 90% once you've done the 10% of actually um signing the deal with the corporate or association. How do you maximize your chances of success there? Um once you are now partnered with that body with that corporate, how do you maximize the chances of success in in terms of getting in front of their members or employees? >> Yeah, I think it's about the short answer and the very simple answer is to be different and and how do we be different is to do things that they haven't done before. Um, you know, in our example, we've done a cutest dog competition a couple of times where the members have to, you know, share crazy silly photos of their dogs. Sometimes it's wearing the corporate merch. We've done a cute few of those which is really funny and cute. Um, and that's what resonates, right? That's what gets people interested and engaged and and so yeah, I think the short answer to your question is is I think you've got to think about things differently. Um, because you know that like you said that HR person or that you know partnerships exact or whoever it is that you're talking to fields calls like this a lot. You know, it's not it's not the first time they're getting a call. So, they are gatekeepers in a way and they're used to people pitching ideas at them all all the time. So, you know, before you sign up and once you're on board, you still got to have that uniqueness where you're pitching something to them as an idea um that is different. Um and then that way you can guarantee that you're going to get um a lot more engagement from the member base rather than just doing something that everyone else is doing. M and it's not like once you sign up with these associations, corporations that they hand over an email list and phone numbers, right? You still have to do a lot of your coms through them, which is why it's so important. >> In fact, it's usually that way. >> Um, never I' I don't think ever we've we've received um or they would be, you know, obviously comfortable sharing third party data these days with the privacy laws and whatnot. So, no. Yeah, you're spot on in that we have to sort of do everything through them within it which in itself is a challenge um because you know they they they've got the full control and we're in their hands but hey it's their members it's not they're not our members then they're not our employees so I get that but we have to be very respectful of that and it poses some significant challenges around you know how we communicate to the members because at the end at the end of the day it's up to them how they want the message to be conveyed and really we have little very little input. I wouldn't say no input, but certainly very little input. >> So the what's in it for them is probably the big question that you need to ask every time you try and push some coms. >> Yeah. Or their members and employees. Yeah. What's in it for the the organization? >> Both sides. >> Both sides. Yeah. Absolutely. >> So then something like a competition um of you know sending through photos of your cutest dog. Presumably there's some kind of prize there, right? Um, so then there's an obvious benefit to the members because there's a prize. It's kind of a feel-good thing as well. Maybe it's a bit fun. Is that something that it's a little more difficult to administrate from the HR or partnership managers end or do they just like promote the competition and then you guys like handle the logistics of how that >> work? we need to take the the workload off >> um the partner >> and manage everything. Obviously, they're going to have input and and and say, but yeah, they don't want to be adding any more workload than um than they already have. So, yes, we need to be not only conceiving the idea and and executing on it, but you know, doing everything that falls within that. Um sometimes they may have some involvement. Um, but usually, you know, it's just them saying, "Yes, we agree or no, we don't." And and and and giving them updates along the way. >> Does that have a dual function and that you use that as an opportunity to get visibility on who those members are? So, maybe they have to submit their name, email, or something >> and that's the only time that you're going to get any sort of data is when the the member opts in. Um, right. And that's the opportunity there. Exactly. Right. is like at that point they the member has chosen to be receiving coms from us and then we obviously have some more com uh some more control over the data and what we get. So that is certainly one downside of of um the path that we take in terms of um working with these kind of corporate partners is that um you know the data play which we all know data is king um is not just given over it's just not handed over. Do they ever want you to just simply, you know, do a a webinar or a physical event where you present like this information to their employees? Because aside from the fund that you bring, I mean, it's a genuinely useful product as well. So, they they pull you in to do that kind of stuff. Is there like a a regular cadence with which they get you to do that? >> For sure. Yeah. So you know you'll be asked to go to you might be able to ask to go to conferences events um speak you might just be asked to go into the office and depending on the size of the team speak to the team. So yeah, look that is sort of size dependent in how integrated and and how advanced I guess the program is that you're working with of the of the partner but definitely you've got to be prepared to be called in to be um you know do presentations and and um yeah there's obviously cost associated with that. So it's definitely not a you know whilst it's definitely not a zerocost channel by any means um there is costs involved but you know it's definitely one of our more costefficient channels for sure um but it's certainly not a cost a zerocost channel >> and is there a target number of times and this might be a depends question like sort of a target number of times that you would try and get in front of either a corporation or association per year to run I suppose just more educational Yeah, I mean with if >> yeah for for one partner you would love to be in in some sort of face-toface contact at least two to three times per year. >> And do you tend to see a uptick in people taking on policies sort of immediately following those sessions? >> Yep. Absolutely. It's it's there's a direct correlation a direct correlation in uh interest intent and even ultimately policy signups off the back of face to face and that's with anything right like you know a face to face meeting is so much more powerful than a phone call so it makes sense um but yes absolutely absolutely it is it is a very very important part of a partnership and and any sort of sales process I And going back to um actually collecting the data of the potential members um through competition or whatever it is that you have running now you have the ability to directly market to them as well. What's your approach to that? What does that look like? >> We have to tread carefully. That's what I can say because um we still have that relationship. So, if something goes belly up or if it doesn't go, you know, if it's not really good, a really good experience, who are they going to tell? They're going to go back to the organization or their employer and say, "I had a really bad experience with whoever." Um, so we want to make sure that those partner I which obviously you know we want to make all our sure all our customers have a great experience but we flag those to make sure that it's a perfect experience because they're a really important partner and you know we value that partnership. So what do we do? How do we do that? We'll do things like giving them a dedicated phone line, a dedicated email address which might be just the employee you know employer@petsson.com for example. um so that we know when they call in when they come when there's any form of comms with us we can straight our whole team can straight away see that >> and we'll even go as far as be going oh you know thank you for you know I can see you work for ABC um company um you know we really value that partnership and you get all of these benefits you know you're a VIP because of that people love that >> that's great I love that so making sure that you have total visibility over that so they still get the full benefits um and then but als for sure, but also then acknowledging it. I think it's the acknowledgement that's key. You know, thank you for choosing us. Um, I can see that you work for ABC company and um, because of that, you're getting this benefit and we're going to look after you even more. We're going to give you the royal treatment um that you ordinarily wouldn't get. So, it's making that person feel special. >> That's what works. >> I like that. Would you ever have instances where people would sign up with you directly, maybe in a completely self-service way, pay a different rate to what is available with their corporate partners, and then you would then reach back out to them and and actually >> if they've done that, it doesn't happen very often, but if it does, we'll still make it work somehow. Um, you know, we'll we'll we'll still if if we can verify, we'll honor it. But it's it's actually a rarity because, you know, there's an offer there, so why wouldn't you? Unless they've already signed up. that's happens where they've already signed up and then they've found out after the fact um that they could have got a better benefit and of course if we can make it work we'll we'll just we'll just move them over onto the the corporate program it's not a not a big deal but it's a rarity like I said >> and that's definitely something that the big brands wouldn't do I would say that's the benefit of >> of partnering >> small personalized service >> absolutely absolutely >> um anything else that you wanted to share when it comes to really starting to turn those those members into like paying policy holders that you're doing uh is like your email marketing part of that strategy. >> Email, SMS, um all of that kind of stuff is important, but it's the personalization that really makes it win for us. So, if they've got a golden retriever, we talk about golden retriever insurance, not pet insurance. Um you know, we really personalize that journey. We tell them what kind of common claims a golden retriever is going to get over a, you know, over a staff, a stafy, for example. So, we personalize that journey. We integrate their employee or their membership brand into that experience so that they can see that they're getting all of these benefits because of that. But yeah, the personalization of of of the journey for these members is super important. Um, so that they're not just feeling like they're getting a mass bulk email that's talking to a million people. It's literally targeted to them and their needs. I think personalization is really important. If it's a parting message for your audience, I think I think personalization is underrated in in in from a B2B perspective. So, Alex, for a small team managing these partnerships, keeping track of which are working, which aren't working. That could feel kind of overwhelming for a lot of people. Well, first, can you give us a sense as to how many partnerships you do have? And how do you really measure whether those partnerships are working or not and whether they need love and attention um without trying to overengineer this whole attribution process? >> Yeah. So, we have uh more than 70 active commercial partners at this point in time. Um and it's very labor intensive. Um, and as such, you have to make a very quick decision if they're not working. And it's funny because you can never really pick them. Often the ones that you think may be okay turn out to be great and others, you know, the opposite. So, um, the beauty is we can we track everything really well. Um, and we can see, um, you know, whether it be through the the corporate email that they sign up with, through UTM tracking or or, um, you know, email, whatever. Um, we can track success of a campaign really, really well. And what that means is if we can pretty quickly see, when I say pretty quickly, probably within the first three or four months, whether a partnership's working and my advice would be at that point, you know, if it's not working there and you've tried it, you've had the face to face is, you know, you've you've put in the effort, it's not working, you've got to pull the pin and walk walk away, I wouldn't advise to keep pushing because if it's it's fogging a dead horse at that point, it's just it's it's unlikely to get better. You're better off going over it, going out and finding a different partner. Um, so yeah, the advice there is to, you know, to to to work on as you put in as much effort as you can in for those first three months. Um, but if you felt that you've put in a lot of effort and it hasn't yielded the rewards, you're better off walking away rather than to continue to push through because typically it's unlikely that something's going to change because it's out of your control. It's on their side usually. You know, you've put in everything. You put in 100%. You've tried all of these things that you know worked and they haven't worked. Well, then unfortunately it's it's on their end and you're better off walking away. >> And then would it be worth even tracking to see you know if in a year or two's time like there's a new partnerships manager or a new person in HR to go and try again. >> Yeah, for sure. I think that is a really a really good point that you raised in that you know those these team members are moving on a lot actually um and and that in itself presents a challenge um because you've got a relationship with someone who then moves on. you've got to start again from scratch. So, to [snorts] your question, George, absolutely. If if the deal's fallen over because of that person and you find that someone else has come in, there's your opportunity. There's your golden goose to go back in there and um and and re reattempt um because there's new blood in the business. But also on the on the on the flip side as well, it's interesting that you mention it because um that is a significant challenge that we face within change changes within the team um and requires even more investment and time investment to reestablish that relationship. So, it's a super important aspect that should be taken into consideration because um you know just because you've got the relationship with the business, it's that personal relationship that's so important and when that person moves on um whether you like it or not, you're starting again from scratch. >> And I think that's such a great message to kind of close out on as well, Alex, is B2B. Yes, it's important to think about the benefit to the organization, but you have to make that person's life easier that's actually doing the doing and doing the decision- making as well because at the end of the day, if it goes belly up, it's probably going to be on them or they're going to get questioned over it. So, for sure, and their workload, make their life easy. If if you're picking up the phone and talking to them and they think that you're about to increase their workload, forget about it, right? No one wants to do more work. So, it's a really ch fine line into understanding the benefits that you're potentially bringing, but also are you, you know, you want to make sure that they don't feel like that you've just about added another 30% to their workload. Um, so, you know, you really want to make sure that you're saying, look, we're going to be doing most of this the leg work on our side. You guys just get to call the shots. And I think that's the the sort of the the path to take. >> Love it. Alex, thank you so much for joining us. I really really enjoyed this conversation. and I think it's super relevant, super practical for our listeners and viewers. Um, if people want to find out more about yourself or Pets on me, where's the best place to go? >> Yeah. Yeah, I've really enjoyed the chat. Thanks so much for having me. Um, if anyone wants to sort of connect, LinkedIn is the best way to go. Otherwise, uh, petson.com.au. Listeners can put in the promo code B2B P B2BP um, and they'll get a special bonus on checkout if they want it. So, thanks so much for having me. >> Amazing. Awesome. Thank you so much, Alex. Appreciate your time. >> A quick note before you go, listeners, you can find more great content and get in touch with us at theb2playbook.com. Be sure to subscribe to this podcast and our newsletter while you're there to get the latest news, tips, and resources from our playbook. >> We'll be back the same day and same time with another episode next week. >> Thanks for tuning in to the B2B playbook. Remember, successful B2B marketing starts with the buyer.
