# Market Categories, Competition, and Growth Strategy

**Expert:** April Dunford
**Video ID:** cobwnnEEE-4
**YouTube URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cobwnnEEE-4
**Transcript Length:** 43861 characters

---

## Transcript

Making Big Shifts, presented by Marketing Reboot, with your host Josh Anderson. Everybody, welcome back to Making Big Shifts by Marketing Reboot. I'm your host Josh Anderson, where we talk to real entrepreneurs and the shifts that they are making to drive their business and life forward. We have been on a roll. We have been crushing the guests that's been coming on here lately, and this is no exception and by far one of the biggest ones we've had. So, we have April Dunford here. She is by far the marketing positioning guru in my eyes. She's the founder of Ambient Strategy and best-selling author of Sales Pitch and the book back here you see over my shoulder. Obviously awesome, and that's where I became That's where I got to know her first. April, welcome to the podcast. Cool. It's really great to be here. Awesome. We're glad to have you. So, I kind of set you up there as the positioning guru, right? But tell me, how did you become that person? Like, how did you become build out that niche and where you're at now? Yeah, you know, I so So, I spent 25-ish years in-house as kind of a repeat vice president of marketing in a series of venture-backed startups. I think all in all I did about seven of those. Early on in my career, I did a couple of repositioning where, you know, we had a product that wasn't working so good. We fumbled around. We managed to reposition it somewhere else, and then and the thing took off. And so, my early experience with that got me really interested in the question of how do we do that in a repeatable way? How do we make sure we don't have this bad positioning at the beginning? If we run into bad positioning later on, you know, is there a structured way we could fix that? And so, when I was in-house, I kind of developed a skill or a specialization around that. And in the later years, you know, when you hired me, you hired me because I could talk intelligently about positioning and you thought you had a positioning problem. And then, about 10 years ago, I made the switch to consulting, and it made sense to focus on that because that was the thing that I kind of saw as my specialization, and then, you know, fast forward 10 years, here we are. Very good. Very good. So, we hear about positioning a lot. Obviously, I've I've said the word 12 times already in this podcast. But at its core fundamental level, what is market positioning and how does it a strong positioning drive growth for companies? Yeah, so the way I define it is this. Like positioning defines how your product is the best in the world at delivering something, some value that a well-defined set of customers cares a lot about. Good positioning defines a set of things. Like it defines who exactly do we need to be positioned against? So what are the real alternatives to what we do? It defines what capabilities we have that are different from what the alternatives have and more importantly, the value that we can deliver that no one else can. And then it also defines, well, who's a really good fit for that? So what are the characteristics of a target account that make them care a lot about the value that they can only get from us? And then lastly, positioning defines also your market category or the context that you're positioning the product in. The whole idea is really strong positioning helps you really succinctly and clearly answer to the question, why pick us over the other things you could do? Yeah, like you said category there, that like really just clarifies instantly for some recognition about what your company does, right? It helps like see them in >> of the starting point. Like the real job of a market category is if you got a prospect that doesn't know too much about your stuff and you come in and you say, "Hey, I got this thing, it's a CRM." And just by saying that, you've set off a bunch of assumptions in the minds of customers. Oh, you're a CRM, well, you must compete with Salesforce and you must like track deals across a pipeline. You probably sell this to the head of sales or somebody over in the sales department. It helps the customer get oriented and then you say, "Well, we're actually a CRM for law firms." Okay, I kind of get what you do. I don't know exactly what it is, but I know what a CRM is and then I'm going to build on that. What it does is it sets off a set of assumptions in the minds of prospects about what you're all about. Now, good positioning sets off a set of assumptions that are true and it's like, "Okay, I don't have to tell you exactly who all my competitors are. They're kind of assumed. I don't have to list every feature. A bunch of that stuff is table stakes for the category. If we do a bad job of positioning, we come in and we say, "Hey, we're you know, we're like a CRM." And then everyone's like, "Okay, CRM." And then you're like, "But we're not." Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's too late. The customer is like, "Okay, you're a CRM, so you could be with Salesforce, right?" And you're like, "No, no, no, we don't actually." So, bad positioning will set off a set of assumptions in the minds of customers that are not true. Right, right. >> And then marketing sales now has to undo the damage that this positioning has already done. It's like, "No, no, no, we're not that. No, no, forget forget that. Forget that. Your assumption No, no, no, get over here. Now I'm going to have you pointed in this >> trying to re-educate the the prospect. >> Nightmare, right? Yeah. >> Yeah, when they've already jumped to a conclusion, "Oh, you must be this. I put you in this box." Totally. That makes sense. So, how does your framework, obviously you have your own secret sauce and everything, but if people instill >> Man, they instill that >> a book. Straight. But how have you seen like uh transform like obviously when you're in-house career you saw transformations through moving products, but like when when good positioning actually occurs, how does it transform the entire organization not just marketing? Yeah, well, you know, good positioning feels like magic, right? Bad positioning feels like I'm pushing the rock up the hill, man. Like, it doesn't matter how good my marketing execution is, it doesn't work that good. It doesn't matter how much go good my sales execution is, everybody's confused. Great positioning is like rolling down the hill. It's like everybody just gets it. People are on the phone going, "I don't need Shut up. Stop talk Trap trying to explain it. I get it. Just take my money." Yeah. So, I'll give you an example. The first product I ever repositioned. We had this thing and we were selling it for 199 bucks off the website and we thought it was like spreadsheet on steroids. It was like desktop productivity software. And what it was like a spreadsheet that could do SQL queries. This is a long time ago and so you couldn't do that on a spreadsheet and we thought that was awesome. We did customer discovery. People we talked to said, yeah, that's great. Do that. We did it. We put it up there and we sold like nothing. Nothing. Like 6 months we sold like 200 copies or something. Like we're we're basically going broke on this thing. And what we found was a couple of prospects that used this thing and bought it were actually using it in a completely different way. So they were using it like kind of like a little database that they could put on a mobile device and then sync up with their Oracle database back at headquarters because both of the things had SQL so you could run stored procedures and triggers and things like that. And so we did this repositioning. Now in the repositioning, if you can imagine, now I'm selling this thing as an embeddable database for mobile devices. So think about that. What's my go-to-market look like that? I'm now going in and I'm going to sell you a copy of this for everybody on your sales team or everybody on your field service team. Like that's not 199 bucks off the website anymore. That's I need a sales team. I need a completely different pricing model. I need a whole bunch of stuff. So when we made that pivot, the first thing we did was we hired a sales rep to go try and sell it to see if it would even work. Sales rep goes out. So imagine us, we're 6 months into it. We've only sold 200 copies of this thing. We hire this sales rep and we're like, try it out. He goes and the first deal he lands is 600 copies. Oh boy. And we're like, this is good. Yeah. Good sign. Good sign. Yeah. So we had to So we had to master it. Yeah. We did a really big deal. It was 60,000 seats. 60,000 seats. You can imagine that. One deal. And before that we're selling these onesy twosies. So we had different pricing model, different go-to-market model. We're now trying to sell to the a different person. Like the previous one we were selling to individual users, a lot of developers or people doing tech stuff. Second one I got completely different target market. I got somebody running tech for the sales team, somebody running tech for the services team. Completely different go to market, different places we would advertise, different places we were trying to promote our stuff, pricing package different. Like it was like a whole new business model around this repositioning. So it wasn't just changing the words on the homepage. It was like everything was different. >> Yeah. Wow. I guess I want to go into that. How did you find out that that specific small set of customers were using it like that? Obviously customer feedback, but like it was very keen and very aware of you all to pick that granular one out from all the feedback you were getting. Dude, it was Okay, so let This is how it went. So I got hired. I'm brand new, right? And I'm junior. I'm like the head of product marketing at the time. This was like my first real marketing job, right? So I get hired. I'm the junior. And because I'm the junior, they stick me on the dog, right? They give me the product that's not selling. Make it work. And the whole plan was to kill this product. That was the plan. Kill it. And then but because it was desktop software, right? This is not SaaS. I don't Nobody knows how people are using this thing or how much they're using it. There's no feedback whatsoever. So they were worried if they end of life the thing, people might get really upset. They didn't know. And so they gave me the spreadsheet of everyone that had bought it. And they said, "Call every one of these people and find out if they're going to cry when we make the announcement that we've killed it." Ah. So I called everybody on the list. These are like developers, right? You imagine. Does any developer wants to talk on the phone ever to anybody? No, they don't. But But I I perfected my sob story thing where my whole damsel in distress routine. I called up and I'm like, "Look, they told me to call you and if you don't call me back, they're going to fire me." That's wonderful marketing. Developers are kind people. This is what I learned on this. Developers are kind and they're like, "Okay, we don't want the girl to get fired." So they call me back and I say, "Hey dude, you bought this thing on February 7th." And they're like, "No, I didn't." Like, "Yeah, yeah, you did. It's in the spreadsheet. You bought this thing." And they're like, "Oh, yeah, that thing. Yeah, messed around with that for a week. Don't even use it." And I did 20 calls that sounded like that. They're like, "Yeah, messed around with it for a week, didn't use it." I'm like, "Okay, no one's going to cry when we turn this thing off." The problem was call number 21. Call number 21, I get the guy on the phone and the guy's like, "My god, you guys got the best promotion. Best thing ever. Pry it out of my cold dead fingers. We did this thing. We wrote this little script. We sent it. We put it on the laptops and the sales guys could take orders on their laptops." And before that, they took the orders on paper and they brought it back to headquarters and then put it into the order system, which runs on Oracle. But now I got this little thing where they could do it on their laptop out in the field and they come back and it just automatically syncs. So, there's no mistakes. They get the order right every time. Did it all this stuff. It's amazing. And I'm like, "Well, we didn't build it for that, did we?" And then So, I ended up doing 100 calls. I ended up getting 100 people on the phone. And four were essentially using it in a mobile device to sync back to headquarters. I had some guys doing it for service. One of the One guy was telling me they had these ruggedized devices and they were doing stuff on hydro poles. And the guy would go up on a hydro pole, do this thing on the device, and then take it back and sync it in. And it's like, "Okay." So, then I go back to the team, you know, I'm junior, I'm stupid. So, I go back to the team and they're like, "Okay, how'd it go?" And I'm like, "You know, good news, bad news. The good news is you shut this thing off and 97% of the customer base is not going to cry. The bad news is 3% really going to cry. Like, they're going to cry a lot." And so, the team, credit to the team, had the guts to lean back and say, "Well, why don't we try this mobile device thing?" Hey, sorry to interrupt the podcast really quick. If you're getting value from making big shifts, please subscribe and tap the bell so you don't miss the next conversation. All right, thanks. Appreciate it. And now back to the podcast. And then it was like, "Okay, well, but how would we do that?" Well, you know, we we have to we did a little bit in the product, not much, but a little bit, right? To make that syncing thing really easy. And then And then we have to hire a sales guy, we have to try it out, we have to figure out what the pricing is going to be. So, the company tried it out and it totally worked. In fact, it worked so well, we about a year so later, we got acquired by a big database company in San Francisco. And that product went on to be the growth engine of that business for years. At one point, at one point the statistic was at one point something like 85% of the mobile devices in the United States of America had a copy of that database thing on it. And we could have killed it. We could have killed it. I mean, first of all, credit to the team for, you know, three three percent of the people are using it and listen to a junior person, you know what I mean? That's a that's that's a credit to your team for sure. >> we were we were a tiny little startup, so you know, there's a you know, when you're junior, you're like a significant proportion of THE COMPANY. BUT YEAH, LIKE, you know, I just came in and said, "Ruh-roh, you know, I don't know." But then the thing worked, right? And then once you saw it work, you're like, >> Right. "Well, that was pretty cool." Like, how could we have done that in the beginning without having the whole pain of doing it wrong the first time? And so, after the acquisition, I end up at the big company and here's what happens. My boss quits cuz he's rich now, right? He's in a big acquisition, he's gone. And and I get the promotion and they put me in charge of the marketing for this little thing. And and then they transferred all the junky ass products they had around that weren't selling. Yeah. And we're like, "Do that thing." And I'm like, "I don't know. I don't even know what we did the first time." So, at that point I got really interested in positioning. I thought, "Okay, like, what is this thing and how should we have done it?" Cuz I don't think we did it the way we were supposed to. And what I discovered is that positioning is a thing, everybody's doing it, but there isn't a kind of standardized, repeatable, step-by-step way that we say, "Okay, here's how we get it done." Even if it's not perfect, there there was just nothing. And so, I thought that's crazy. To me, I thought that was crazy that we didn't have that. And so, you know, I spent the next three, four, five years trying to figure that out. >> That's amazing. And as you're figuring that out, and so like that new product was early growth stage, of course, what do you see it now looking back, what are the most common mistakes you've seen for these early stage companies make what with positioning? Well, a handful of things. So, first of all, the most common mistake is the product has not been positioned deliberately. Meaning, the company didn't sit down and actually look at, okay, what are the alternatives to what we have? What do we have that's differentiating, and what is the potential value of that? And therefore, who should we sell this to thing to? Had we done that with that product? Because we kind of messed around the outsides of that, and and you know, talked to customers, and customers we were kind of like, "Hey, if you had a spreadsheet that did SQL, would you like that?" And they were like, "Yeah, it sounds kind of cool." Whatever, yeah. But what we didn't sit down and say was, "What's the value?" Like, so, why do you want a SQL in a spreadsheet? Yeah. >> you want it? And if we had a sat down and got really tight on that, we might have come up with this aha moment, which was the reason you want it is because you can't like back then, you couldn't put Oracle on a laptop. Like, the footprint on that thing was just too big. You had to have specialized servers, and it the setup took you two weeks, and it was like the whole big deal thing to get Oracle installed on a server. What you had on a laptop was spreadsheets, Microsoft Access, junky stuff that didn't have SQL. So, your your Oracle thing couldn't talk to anything on a laptop. If we had a sat down and thought about that, we would have said, "You know what what this thing actually is? Is an embeddable database for mobile devices." >> Dope. That's what it is. But we never went through a structured process to say, well, who are we compared to? Well, we're compared to spreadsheets and Access. Well, what makes us different? Oh, we have SQL in a spreadsheet. Okay, what's the value of that? And the value of that is it's compatible with the thing in the office. And then you say, "Well, who cares about that?" People with a lot of folks on the road that need to do stuff, like sales people, like service people. Had we gone through that process, we might have got there without having the pain of, you know, putting a thing out, having it fail, almost canning it, the whole deal. >> Interesting, for sure. So, if you let's just do a hypothetical scenario, right? So, if you were starting, let me say, um a B2B project management software, I don't know. And and there's tons of established players already, Trello, Asana, blah blah blah, we know them. Terrible space. Yeah, how how would you get started to find a real differentiator? Like would that that literally that process you did that process you just set forth would be it? Like competitors? >> Well, yeah, like I mean, think about it this way. Like most new software is developed because somebody's frustrated with something, right? So, so if we were doing project management software, for example, like like let's say you woke up and you're using Trello or whatever you're using, Jira or something. And you and you're like, "You know what sucks about this? You know, I can't do blah." Then the first thing I think you would look at is, "Okay, so let's say I built one that did blah. Who cares about that?" Like is that a big enough market to actually be a market? And how would I sell to those people? And how would I get to those people? And what would the pricing have to look like on that? Like is this even a business? And then if if the answer to those were yeah, it is a business, then, you know, maybe you prototype the thing and get it in front of people, but you're not just saying, "Hey, does this look cool?" And everybody says yes to that question. What do you say? Would you use this thing? If you were using this thing, like what are you doing now to solve this problem? And how would what would have to change in order for you to stop doing that and start doing my thing? And then even then, if you build the product and you launch it, like often our assumptions about what customers are going to do is kind of wrong. So, you know, I wouldn't worry about having the external positioning super super super tight until I got this first wave of customers in and then I would look at what's happening with that first wave of customers and say, did the positioning thesis hold? Like we had a thesis that said, here's how we compete with this, how we're different, this is what we, you know, these are the kind of people we think are going to love us for this reason. Let's just go out there and sell a bunch around and see does it land? Because a lot of times my experience with a brand new product, a lot of times you get it out there and you're getting pulled the product's getting pulled in directions that you never could have anticipated and then you can lean back and say, okay, we thought these kind of people would love it, but it turns out it's these kind of people. Well, why do they love it? What's the value going on there? And if I repositioned around that, is that a good market to go chase after? This is very very common and what did lean startup people call it? Pivot. So, I actually think like from a positioning standpoint it's good to have a thesis, but sometimes you don't want to expose the thesis at the beginning because you know it's going to change. So, like here's my bad analogy for this, but it's like it's like you're a fisherman and you built a fishing net and you said, hey, I got a fishing net and the thesis is this world's greatest tuna fishing net, right? And I designed it for that cuz we know a lot about that. But I could launch it as a tuna fishing net and it either fails or it's successful and if it fails, what did I learn? That tuna fishermen don't like it, that's all I've learned. What I could do instead is launch the thing I know it's for tuna, I'm keeping that secret kind of, but I launch the thing and I say, hey people, I got a net. It's for fish, all kinds of fish, big fish, probably. Try it out. And I work my network and everybody's network and I get a bunch of fishermen using this thing and let's just see what they pull up. And maybe maybe what we end up is we're like, grouper, who knew? I wasn't even thinking about grouper cuz I don't know about grouper, [laughter] but now I know that I got the world's greatest grouper fishing and then I can go after the grouper people because I know this is going to work. And once I'm done fishing, you know, establishing in the group of fishermen market, then I'm going to go after tuna later. This is what most launches end up looking like. That's awesome. That's a good analogy, too. Love it. So, um now I have a question, too, about personal like founders that are building personal brands within their own product brand, right? What are your tips for that? Like, what is the best way to build a personal brand that still feeds into your product brand, I guess I should say. Yeah. Like, it's different if you're if you're selling a product versus selling consulting services. Like, you know, like I'm a consultant and and I am the brand. Like, that you know, you're but you you pay for my brain. Like, this is how this works. If you are a founder that's selling something, often if you think about the positioning of your product, like in the answer to the question why pick us over the other guys, often there's something that the customer needs to in order to understand why your thing is so special. And we call this your point of view in the market. Let Let's say you've got some security product, right? And you say, "Everybody else does security this way, and it's good for this but bad for this. But we looked at that, and we said, 'You know what? What if you did it in this totally different way, and that would get you this different security profile.'" There's an education bit there. And so, I think often the founder's role is to evangelize the point of view, the point of view Yeah, yeah. that says, you know, "I've worked with a thousand companies, and this is what I know about that, and this is where we're getting this wrong." Like, in my opinion, it's not so much about Like, I think this is where a lot of personal branding goes wrong is it's not about me and my spouse and my kids and my trip that I did the other day, and this is what it taught me about leadership. Like, I think there's too much personal in the personal branding. And maybe that's just me. But, you know, we're not trying to be Kim Kardashian here, because Kim Kardashian's like me, she's the brand, right? What we're trying to be is more, you know, the expert. And if you understood what we understood, then you would always be buying our stuff. And it's my job to evangelize our point of view on the world. And you want to be an expert in that. Like in the same way, like if you think about HubSpot in the early days of HubSpot, those guys were out there evangelizing the concept of inbound marketing. And it wasn't about Dharmesh's kids or whatever. It wasn't about that. And every time you saw those guys on social media or standing up at conferences or doing anything, they were talking about outbound marketing's broken. We need to be doing in the digital age where everything's digital, we need to be doing inbound marketing and this is what we mean by that. And they hit that story for five solid years. Right? And that's where I think good, like good founder branding is really more about evangelizing the point of view on the market and doing it consistently and just over and over and over and over until the whole world is sick of it. Love it. Yeah, that's kind of goes into what's my next question about not not even the mistakes and you deal with a lot of companies and founders. What are things that people need to unlearn about positioning? There's these preconceived notions. Yeah, handful of things that I think really mess founders up. One is this, and I don't know where the heck it came from, but there's this idea, and I think it kind of comes from the it's sort of magical thinking from the investment community, but there's this idea that some founders have that if it is impossible to be successful, and when I say successful, I mean venture successful, without creating an entirely new market category. And that's just  Yeah. That's absolute  Like this this bugged me so much, I heard this so much at one point, I did the actual study on this and I went and I looked at everybody that every company that had gone public on the NASDAQ in the previous 10 years and then I looked at were they positioning themselves in existing market category or creating a new market category at the time they went public which means they're big already, right? And it was very few. It was under 10%. Yeah, I mean you >> 7% of the companies That's where positioning in an existing market category. Now, sometimes people will try to pretzel themselves. Like for example, I had this conversation with a with a founder once and they said, "Well, what about Snowflake?" And I'm like, "Snowflake's positioning at the exact moment when they went public was we are a data warehouse for the cloud." Yeah. And he said, "That's new. Nobody had a data warehouse for the cloud before." And I'm like, "Dude, it's a subsegment of the data warehousing market. We know what a data warehouse is. So, that is not creating a new category. That's saying, 'Hey, we're a data warehouse, but for this.'" And all that have to do with it requires so much more education, right? If you're in a brand new category, it's going to require a lot more education of the prospects, right? Absolutely. Like like the whole the whole purpose of a market category >> Like you talked to Yeah. is to orient the customer in the space. Now, sometimes, and it's about 1 in 10, less than 1 in 10, you got a thing, it's so new, it's so weird, it's so advanced, it's usually using some breakthrough technology that hasn't existed before and you have no choice but to position in a new market category because there is no good market category for you to position in. And in those cases, you got to do you're just going to have to suck it up and do it. I've worked with about 350 companies as a consultant and it and I'm running about perfectly 10%. About 10% of the time, it's like, "Sorry to break it to you, boys, but we're creating a new market category here cuz there's no other way to do this." And then when you do that, you have to be very very careful. So, what you first thing you need, patient long-term investors that get what you're trying to do because this isn't a one-year thing or a two-year thing. This is like a five to 10-year thing to create this market category and you need investors that are going to stick with you when you hit year three and it still hasn't hit yet to keep carry on with you. If you look at then the second thing is you need to be very very careful about the moment when this category begins to emerge because that is the perfect moment for a well-funded copycat to come in behind you and leapfrog you because after you've done all the work to build the category out, right? >> Dude, you've done all the work and you're tired and your and your bank account's empty and these guys come IN WITH FRESH CASH and say yeah, yeah, us too but better cuz it was way easier to build cuz they just looked at your stuff, leapfrogged all your stuff and did whatever. So you have to be very very very careful about getting up front like the history of Silicon Valley is littered with companies that blew their brains out making a market category and then fumbled it at the one-yard line like MySpace, Ask Jeeves. >> [laughter] >> All those things like like Research In Motion, BlackBerry. Like there's tons of companies out there that did this great job, invented the category, did the thing and the minute they did smoosh. So we have to be very careful when we're doing that. It's hard to find examples of a company that was actually creating a category when they were small and lived to dominate the category once it was created. That is actually super super rare. What we see more often is companies dominating the category and then creating a new category that supersedes the category that basically just expands the boundaries of the category so that they have a bigger addressable market and they can keep growing. So that is quite common and it is probably the place where you really want to do category creation. Okay. Very interesting. So, trying to be in the cat trying not to be in a category is a very thing people are something people do not need to unlearn. Was there another one that you commonly see? Well, yeah. Like the the the the first one is not doing the positioning deliberately, right? So, just kind of saying we're a database. What else could we be? What do you mean, man? Like, you know. Second one is overthinking the market category thing or trying to force yourself in a new market category when there's an existing market category that's just fine and would be way easier for you to position in. The other one I think the the last one I think is a is is is um a little bit more advanced. The most common thing that I see with successful companies that come in and work with me is there is uh great disagreement across the senior executive team about who to position against. And that disagreement manifests itself in weak positioning. And it it does it like this. I I'm thinking about there's a company I was working with 3 4 weeks ago. And uh they came in and I said, "Okay. Step one. If you didn't exist, what would a customer do?" And so, it was very clear what we were replacing. Generally, this product was replacing some homegrown stuff, stuff that people had built inside, or manual processes. And then I say, "Okay, well, who lands on the short list against you? Like, who else, you know, is a competitor to you?" And the head of product put his hand up and he said, "Vibe coding." They're going to vibe code this thing. It's like lovable or one of these vibe coding things. And the head of sales got this look on his face like >> [laughter] >> And I said, "What do you think?" And the head of sales is like, "Not once. We have never seen that in a deal, not even once." And the head of product was, "We will. They could. Trust me, right?" So, this is a very serious thing to tackle because here's the thing. We are terrible at predicting the future. Terrible. And just because a product could compete with you or might compete with you, or should compete with you, doesn't mean they do. And so, we need to keep be really grounded in who is causing us pain right now. Because, if a customer is never putting that thing on the short list, guess what? It's a ghost. I don't have to position against a ghost that doesn't live anywhere except my own head. Customers aren't thinking about them. Customers aren't putting them on the short list. They're not causing you any pain. And here's the reality. If in the future a customer starts thinking about hey, maybe I can vibe code this thing, and we start losing some deals to that, we can adjust the positioning accordingly if and when that ever starts to happen. But, trying to position against things that customers aren't even thinking about is just going to make your positioning weak and confusing. Sure. Yeah. Because you're talking about a bunch of things and they're like vibe coding, what are you talking about? Like we that's not what we're doing. That's the level. Yeah, for sure. >> So, this is really important, and I think feedback from the sales team is really important, and getting real serious about who is actually causing us pain right now, and being open to the idea that yeah, you could compete with these folks. They never end up on a short list for whatever reason. Maybe they don't have any sales people. Maybe they're four people in a basement. Maybe they're focused on a whole different segment of the market than you are. And you you have no idea what's going on inside over there. You know, so trust the facts, and then be open to the idea that in the future, if and when we start seeing these folks pop up cuz we're watching for it, then we have lots of time to adjust the positioning then. >> Sure. And going to that what you just said there, adjusting, reassessing, is that just basically depend on just the market or should you like you do you recommend people putting in like this annually review our positioning? All Yeah. So, when I was in-house, we did it every 6 months. We had a 6-month thing where we get a subset of the positioning team together, and we do kind of a speed run on it and say, "Okay, competition, are we seeing anybody we didn't see the last time we did this positioning? What does that look like? The other thing you'd look at is differentiators. Like maybe your existing competitors have caught up with you. They put out a new release and you had a thing that was differentiating 6 months ago, but it ain't anymore. Or maybe someone's done an acquisition or maybe there's a new So we have this conversation and we say, does this impact the value that is differentiating that we can deliver that the other guys can't? And if it does, we got to go back to the drawing board on the positioning and and do an adjustment. If it doesn't, then we say, great, see you in 6 months. We go back and do it again. Some companies, like I know some companies now they're doing this quarterly. You know, especially with all this AI stuff, there's so much stuff is changing and there's so much money being thrown at it and so much acquisition stuff happening that you might want to do it quarterly. But I always felt like every 6 months was enough because things didn't change that fast. Interesting. And then you have an early warning, right? So that, you know, you've got the head of sales sitting there going, you know what? We're starting to see so-and-so popped up a little bit. And then you can sort of back up and say, okay, like is that a real threat? And if it is, do we need to adjust the positioning for it? Otherwise, if you don't do this check-in every once in a while, you won't know until it's a disaster, right? You won't know until it's you got the you've had the bad quarter and then you, you know, look under the hood and say, what the heck happened? And you're like, oh, we lost half the deals to vibe coding. Well, crap. You want to have the early warning that says, you know, we've seen them in a few places starting to be scary. Yeah. And then you can adjust the positioning there. It's kind of going down a rabbit hole, but it's curious with all the tech clients you see, are people like with all the there's a lot of fear about vibe coding taking over a lot of the tech Oh my god. Like I like every single every single workshop I've done in the last 6 months, we have to talk for about an hour on vibe coding. Class is dead. You hear it all the time on LinkedIn and everything, right? >> I mean, this is it. It's so noisy. It's so noisy. And it's such exciting technology, to be honest, right? That that this idea that you might be able to just vibe code anything and put it in a thing and oh my god. Um, I think right now these vibe coding things, you know, I think I think they're scary in theory, but I don't think they're causing a lot of pain to like regular SAS tools right now. It's It's the but what if, right? That's the thing keeping everybody up. But what if? What if? >> And so we'll see how that all shakes out. I mean, but I think a lot of companies are you know, I think I think a lot of these vibe coding tools are living rent-free in the heads of other companies that are like, "Oh no." Yeah, no doubt, right? Yeah. Well, because you have these investors that have put so much money into these things. They need this stuff to work in a huge way. So there's this incredible hype because everybody needs this to work or else we're all, you know, a lot of these venture funds are in big trouble. The stock market's in big trouble. Companies themselves are in big trouble. And so some things are incredibly hyped and the companies themselves are out way over their skis talking about stuff that is, you know, a year out at best. For sure. So it's hard to separate the noise from reality right now and I think companies need to be very close to what's going on in actual deals. If the customers are caught up in the hype, then you got to pay attention. If the customers are not, then you don't. >> Yeah. Yeah, be interesting to see what the next 12 to 18, even 6 months going to be, right? >> That's it. That's it. Things are going to change, man. Yeah. Well, this is the point of the podcast where I ask, "What do you got going on that's exciting?" But I did see you have a new release of the book, obviously on >> we were talking to me on launch day. That's awesome. >> it? Tell me about it. What What is it? >> I'm going to show you. This is the new This is the new one. You know it's new cuz it got the little yellow sticker on it. Yeah, I don't have that one. I don't have that. Yeah, it says updated and expanded. Yeah. So I went back So the my original book on positioning is called Obviously Awesome. I released that in 2019 and since then I've worked with a few hundred companies and my thinking's changed on a bunch of things. Like some things I some things I've changed my mind about and then a lot of things I got a lot of feedback on the book cuz I've sold a lot of copies, like a hundred thousand copies of that book if you can believe that. Tech people aren't shy about telling you when they think you're you're you did something wrong, right? So they send me the email and they're like, "Hey, on page 29 you said this thing." And I'll be like, "I know, I could have done it better. Sorry." So it was fun to do a do-over and go back. So I've expanded a bunch of things. Like my chapter on differentiated value in the original book was way too short, it turned out. So I had to expand that. I added a bunch of stuff related to how to position if you have multi-multiple products in a company cuz I'm working with some bigger companies now and that's actually really tricky and hard to figure out. So I added a chapter on that. I added a bunch of stuff in that how to prepare for a positioning exercise to make sure you've set yourself up for success. And then I added a bunch of stuff on the end to kind of expand on how do you test your positioning? How do you make it work for the sales team so that it actually sticks? So you know, the the guts of the book, you know, it's a second edition, it's the same book, but there's a bunch of stuff that's expanded and and a certain amount of stuff that's new. So that's my exciting thing I'm working on. >> Awesome. I'm going to check it out. Yeah, it's very very very good. Congrats on the the updated version, too. I'm going to check it out because like you the two things you said there, we don't dive into them today, but positioning for multiple brands, you know, that usually involves multi-ICPs, too, right? So it's that's always a tricky Tricky. Tricky, very tricky. And then I think from all the positioning work I've ever done, the hard part is getting the rest of the organization bought in. So like you said, the end of it is getting the sales team and everybody on the same page cuz Sales team in particular. Yeah. Because you know, and I saw this when I was in-house. Like you can have the best positioning in the world, but if the sales team dumps on it, you're dead. For sure. Again, marketing just can't live in a marketing bubble. The minute they get on the phone with the sales team and so the sales team's got to believe. They they got to get it. They got to understand it. They got to believe it. And so in my opinion, you got to do it. Sales people have to be involved in creating it. When you do the test, the best way to test positioning is test it in a first call pitch deck. If it works there, then you're good. If it doesn't work there, then you're dead everywhere. This could be a 5-hour conversation. So I'm going to start wrapping [laughter] up. Although I love this. This is this is a awesome. Where can people find obviously awesome? I'm assuming Amazon of course everywhere you find it. Yeah, Amazon. All the books are bought on Amazon. We can have a conversation about that. But it's April Dunford.com. If you um you know, want to I got a newsletter and once in a while I do my own podcast. Not very often, but sometimes I do. And uh but the book is yeah, obviously awesome. It's the second edition. You can find it anywhere anywhere you buy books actually, not just Amazon. Yeah. I love it. I highly recommend the first edition. It taught me a lot and I'm looking forward to getting the second one. So I appreciate you being on the podcast. You're able to get in time. I know you're busy on on launch day. So thank you very much. Yeah. Well, thank you. This has been great. All right. Well everybody, that's a wrap. Thank you so much listening to Making Big Shifts by Marketing Reboot. Please like, subscribe, and share it with your friends. And we'll catch you on the next one. Hey guys, thanks so much for listening to Making Big Shifts by Marketing Reboot. It'd be a huge help to us if you subscribe to the channel and share this with somebody that you think needs it. Your support helps us continue to bring great guests on board and keep the conversation going. Have a great day. Thank you for listening to Making [music] Big Shifts. Like, share, and follow for more. [music] Join us next time on Making Big Shifts presented [music] by Marketing Reboot.
