# Demand Gen Keynote with CEO Chris Walker

**Expert:** Chris Walker
**Video ID:** L2baqhX1sMg
**YouTube URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L2baqhX1sMg
**Transcript Length:** 60636 characters

---

## Transcript

Get everyone here. Cool, we'll give everyone a second to roll in. We got Thursday going on. Make sure I got my the announcements in. For anyone that just got in here, we'll get started in just about a minute. Just let everyone roll in. All right. Cool. We'll we'll get started here for other people roll in, then they can be catching up. If you all have questions along the way, feel free to drop them in the chat, and then we'll get to them at the end. And welcome everyone. I'm really excited to do this. For those of you that don't sort of know, we do this on a bi-weekly cadence. Um and in a part of them, we have a guest like we've had Rand Fishkin and Dave Gerhardt and Gaetano DiNardi and Vlad Koman and a lot of other people, CMOs and marketing leaders and experts here to join, then the other half of them I do um on my own, and I got to say that this might actually be my favorite event to do, and the reason is because I come into it basically with almost no notes and typically a new concept and it's sort of like a it's sort of experimental for me, um which is cool. So, I have the audience, I sort of I'm like I'm in a position where I have to perform, so to speak, but a lot of the things that I have here are not fully baked, so I get to figure out my thoughts with you, which is cool. A couple of notes been things before we get in here. Um I uh right after this will be getting up getting on a plane and heading to to Greece and for a little bit of a uh wind down, then I'm going to Belgium. I'm doing a speech at the Work Smarter conference on June 23rd in Ghent, Belgium. So, anyone in the Belgium region, if you'd like to meet, I'll be actually in Belgium for 2 days and I'll be available. So, if there's people I know that there's a lot of fans of the podcast in Belgium. So, if you'd like to meet, I'd love to meet you in person. Um the next thing is that and I'm going to announce it here. We are coming up on the end of an era. So, for those of you that have been attending Demand Gen Live for the past 2 years, we started Demand Gen Live in March of 2020 when the pandemic started. We hosted it 7:30 p.m. on Tuesdays. I started it with my good friend Gaetano DiNardi and it's evolved from there and has been a just an incredible catalyst for both my personal life and my professional career for the business that I run. I know it's been helpful for so many people. I think we probably had more than 5,000 people attend over the past 2 years. And we'll be announcing and and having our last episode ever on June 28th. And so, if you all would like to join, it's at 7:30 p.m. Eastern on Tuesday June 28th for the final episode of Demand Gen Live as it stands today. The live event will not go away, but we're going to be reframing the timing, maybe not at 7:30 p.m. Eastern anymore, the cadence, what frequency will we be doing it, the format, and a couple other things will be changing. So, we'll continue to have live events, but it won't be in the same exact thing as Demand Gen Live, which is sort of like an the end of an era. Cool. So, um I'm going to get started here. We'll see how long it goes for. If you all have questions, I think this one will actually spark a lot of questions cuz it's completely new, and so I'm looking forward to sharing it. So, let's go. For those of you that don't know, I um I come from I studied biomedical engineering in university. I worked in several medical device organizations in my previous career for multiple years. And I've been starting to think about the and comparing the practice of medicine to the practice of marketing. And so, when um in the late 1800s and early 1900s, the way that medicine was practiced and advanced was through pure observation. Individual physicians would do things for patients. They would collect data on their own. They would create observations, and then they would share those observations with others about the anecdotes that they experienced and found. And in around post World War II, the 1940s, what the medical community realized is that running this mere level of observation where one person does something, we observe something, and then we try and um deduce things for it to a to further the science, people realized that this is a a very inefficient and a very impractical way of actually advancing science. So, what they started to do is started to be a lot more pragmatic and a lot more intentional about how they advance the science of medicine by organizing clinical trials where a third party would take lots of physicians and lots of patients and do something in a controlled way, collect a lot of data, draw conclusions, have that be peer-reviewed by a third party, and then that information was then distributed to physicians to use. And when that started to change in how medicine worked, what happens is that physicians and hospitals can implement and prac and implement clinical strategies with way more confidence because somebody's already done the science and the research, so they know if I treat these types of patients with these types of methods, I'll get these types of results because they've done it and there's statistics to show that this is how it works. And so, it's been able to rapidly advance the progression in the science of medicine since that sort of scientific thinking took off in the 1940s and has come so far, right? The the advancement of medicine over just the past our my lifetime, over the past 20 to 30 years, is ridiculous. The success rates on certain types of cancers are like way way higher than they used to be. Um rare disease, there's medicines for a lot of rare diseases now, just like the way that medicine is advancing is incredibly strong. Now, how does that apply to marketing? The way that marketing is practiced today and the way that marketing is advanced is like medicine in the 1890s. Individual marketers or individual companies run little experiments. They use observation of their own, right? You're collecting data, so were the physicians in the 1800s. You're collecting some level of data. You you there's some level of an observation that drives some time of subtype of a conclusion, which then gets shared and moved forward. So, um I'm thinking about what is like what would be the step to get to the next sort of level in this of the science. Cuz what I see is that when companies are trying to innovate in their marketing, basically what happens is that their marketers want to do something new, right? A bunch of people on this call want to go out and do something new, like do the live event like we're doing right now, create a community, do a podcast, run LinkedIn ads the way that we do anything, right? Want to do something. And then they're like, okay, we want to do it. There's no documentation about how to do it. There's no data about the results for it. So, there's no documentation of how to measure it or what to expect. So, when you go into the organization, executives don't have confidence in it. Marketers aren't really sure what to look for, what to do, or have the confidence to to present that to executives. So, what happens is that most experiments end up failing, and marketers regress back to a like sort of a whatever's been accepted in the market, which is typically only what's been driven through technology partners. So, at the end of the at the end of the 1940s when when medicine started to advance at this rate, what they called that is they called it evidence-based medicine. That physicians practice medicine based on the clinical third peer-reviewed evidence available, and they use that all the evidence available to inform their clinical strategies. And I think that we'll end up in some who knows when. I think but I do think that we'll end up somewhere in marketing where it's going to be evidence-based marketing, where marketers stop using just pure observation and are looking for a lot more robust data and information in order to actually think about what am I going to do, how am I going to present that to leadership, and how how is my organization going to move forward. Some of the things that you get when when this happens, like if you are in like I'm probably one of the only few that people have done this, but if you like understand the operations inside of a hospital, like they use the evidence, they have clinical protocols that everyone follows, so everyone is on the same page, right? Like imagine a marketing team of 50 people and everyone being on the same page. It's just I talked to enough marketing teams that are 50 people, that's just not how it works. When physicians see a patient and they they see these are the signals that I'm getting from this patient, they they have an algorithm that says this is what you're supposed to do. So, they can practice medicine with confidence. And so, what I'm suggesting here is that's like one part. I think that's a it's a really interesting concept that I'm going to continue to think through about how this actually works. And what this means for individual marketers right now, like obviously there's no there's there's no one running these clinical trials for marketing, so there's there's nothing to do right now, but what we're doing is we're helping companies think and we do it for ourselves and I'm going to actually screen share and show some things. We help mark companies think about their marketing programs like an innovation pipeline, right? If you are a pharmaceutical company, you have a full product pipeline of innovation cuz not everything's going to make it and you have to go through rigorous steps of figuring out like is this safe? Does it actually do what what we think it does? Does it work better than anything else available? Is it ready to commercialize? And they go through just like you would in clinical trials, just like you would in developing a new product from feasibility to concept to blah blah blah and working through your marketing programs and moving them through an innovation pipeline. So, I'm going to show a couple things here. So, just showing this up here so people can see. Um this is basically a a high-level overview about how clinical trials works. You have basically phase one, phase two, phase three, phase four of how of and there are different uh levels of number of patients that are in them. There's different things that are being studied at each one and there's different level of investments that happen at each stage, right? So, as you keep going and there are more patients and it's more likely to succeed and become commercialized, more investment is moving into these programs. And now this is obviously just like a a mocked up Asana board, but I want people to be able to look at this and imagine like what happens if you took all of your active marketing programs and then put them in a development stages and looked at it objectively about where each of them are at based on the available data that you have. And so the five stages is are a modified version of our stacking growth framework, which is basically how we've been you for 2 years moving something from initial experiment to fully operationalized and scale, whether that's paid or organic programs, you can work through this exact process the same way. Starting with experiments, so we're like maybe we had an insight, right? There was an insight that came from Refine Labs that said if you do this on TikTok, then you get this result. So, now we have the insight. We're going to start running the experiments at our own business. We run the experiment, then the next step is positive signals, right? In positive signals, you have to move from just doing stuff to seeing people respond positively to what you're doing. So, that could be comments from CMOs in the TikTok post. That could be how we have multiple people per week now booking a consultation call on our website to work with us saying that they heard about us on TikTok, VPs of marketing, CMOs, people like that. That would qualify as positive signals. Then you have to get the move from positive signals to repeatability is pretty large because then you have to go from it happening, you know, we got one good comment or we got one submission that said TikTok to repeatability meaning like as we continue to do this that we get submissions like this every week. As we keep doing it, we keep getting a result out. Then moving from repeatability to operationalize is going from how are we going to actually like ramp this up? We're probably if we look at TikTok in our business right now, we're probably in stage three. We're probably like it seems to be pretty repeatable, but we haven't figured out fully how to operationalize and scale it yet. Operationalize and scaling, we might need technology to apply. This would be a great time to apply technology once we already know the dynamics of how the channel works. Um we might need different people or resources. We might need new processes. We might need to add budget. Like this is the time like stage four is the time to start to define those things and then move through a process of actually figuring out how do we take this from posting once a week to posting seven times a week or how do we get this from running $5,000 in LinkedIn ads to running $50,000 in LinkedIn ads? Like a lot of times the best the most appropriate time to do this step is in stage four. And just the fact of the matter is that most companies apply technology, increase budgets, and things like that at stage one. Right? Before they even know how things are going to work. They just sort of like dump things dump things in. And then stage five would be this thing is the equivalent to commercial launch in a product development pipeline. This is fully integrated into our marketing mix. We know how it works. We know that we can depend on it. We know we have real confidence that this is a main driver. So, for our business like the State of Demand Gen podcast is fully commercialized. We publish three times a week. People love it. We keep doing this and it keeps delivering more and more for us. So, if you think about this as an overall business and the stages that I set forth, what we'll do and I'm working on it and I'll work on it when I'm in Europe is trying to define objectively what do these stages mean? Like what criteria do you have to hit for it to be stage two? So, that everyone on this Zoom and everyone listening to the podcast will be able to to objectively identify where all of their programs fit in this in these stages. And that would allow you to initially do a some level of maturity assessment. We do this with companies, too. A maturity assessment of like we're going to look at all the programs. We're going to look at all of the all of the ways to measure it. Like if you're using self-reported attribution, if you have attribution data, all these different things and using all the measurement data, we're going to be able to put the programs where they belong in this chart. So, I'm going to show you an example here. This is a 50 million ARR SaaS company that started working with us 2 and 1/2 years ago. And this is what their their if you if you went back and did the maturity assessment, which we do with companies, this is where it landed. They were spending $150,000 a month on Google search and LinkedIn ads and had no positive signals to show for it. Almost none. Right? It was all ebook that was it. If you look at the attribution data and you map it to revenue, there was like almost one no impact. So, they there's a lot of stuff going on, but when you actually scrutinize it against results, you can objectively put these into buckets. The thing that was actually working the best for them was uh referrals that were coming from Software Advice, which was generating about 10% of their revenue at almost no cost, 10% of their marketing sourced revenue at almost no cost. And so, you basically can stack up all of the programs here and say this is where this is where we are right now. And then this is how it looks right now. It's a lot to take in, so I'll give people a second to look, but they have a lot of things that are fully at scale. We spend now $250,000 a month with them on LinkedIn. We spend more than $100,000 between Facebook and Instagram. Google search is in a in a much better spot. We actually spend less on Google search now than they did when we started with us and we get way better results. Spend on Google does not equal results on Google, especially at this time at this exact moment where the economy's slowing down. Like people better be moving money out of Google. It's and I'm afraid companies are actually putting more money in Google, but I digress. And so you see here just a much more well-balanced pipeline and now the things that are early stages that we're getting positive signals on are things like Reddit, Quora, Twitter, right? Thing cuz Facebook and LinkedIn and things like that are already at scale. So, now it's like what's the next part of the innovation that we can start to pull in and then if you look over time, it won't be too long until they have seven or eight programs that are fully at scale. Right? One of the highest performing marketing organizations that I've ever had a had the opportunity to work with. This is what their innovation pipeline looks like. A couple other things to note like they don't you you don't actually need a trillion things to be fully at scale for it to work. Like LinkedIn is the workhorse for them. This is a big total addressable big total addressable markets, too. LinkedIn, we spend a lot of money and LinkedIn is a workhorse and we deliver more than a million dollars a month in revenue through their website. And now I just want to show you an example of what ours looks like. Um you can see here also a couple things to note like I've noted here between capture demand, damn demand, and create demand, which I think is also a really important strategy for people to see how balanced or what's the spread of your programs between the intention of capturing demand versus creating demand. And if you just if you just honestly assessed it, most companies would have all capture demand stuff inside of this pipeline. And if you look at ours, there's only one thing that's focused on uh on capturing demand and it's fully at scale, which is creating a delightful, efficient inbound buying experience for our customers using a calendar booking link, only talking to declared intent conversion say I want to talk to you about working with with Refine Labs now. And so, that's one thing that we put in place that drives massive results. It's a capture demand strategy, but if you look at the blend of all the things that we're doing here, it's mainly focused on demand creation. And so you can just see here like the podcast is at scale. Events and communities are very very high up there. Um our how our employees are publishing content on LinkedIn is definitely a mature There's a There's There's such more room There's always more room to go, but it's definitely a mature execution for us right now. Some of the earlier stages for us like LinkedIn paid, we're getting positive signals. Somebody tagged me in a thing right uh today um because what we're doing is we take my content that already worked well organic and then we run ads to it to our top 1,000 accounts. And we got people that have already converted saying they heard about us through these specific ads. And we got people commenting on the ads saying these are really helpful and educate and educational and we got So we got positive signals there and we're going to move to repeatability soon. Um TikTok is actually a real player for us. I I mentioned earlier as I was telling the story, it's probably in repeatability. So you you just get a sense about how to think about all of your all your different programs and be objective and realistic about where everything is at. And then if you had this up here to show your entire organization about here's where our R&D pipeline is. It helps the organization see that you're innovating, right? I hear from every every CMO like the thing that they want Um they want a lot of things, but one of the things that they want they want their board and the rest of the executive team to know how much they're innovating, how much they're trying to push the needle and how much they want people to see those things. And so by being able to make this visible it creates a long-term window, right? Like you're not going to move something from experiment to scale in a week or a month or 3 months. It creates a it's creates a long-term window. It simplifies the overall strategy, right? Cuz you don't need a million things that like look at our business like Refine Labs business at stage five we got four and five we got five programs. You don't need a million things to be for for we at scale for your business to grow super fast. It helps the organization focus on what's most important. It helps you objectively see the things that aren't working and don't deserve to be here in this chart anymore. It'll help you see that cuz they'll just be sitting in stage one or stage two and not go any further. So it just gives it creates some level of framework for for marketers and companies to use to to demonstrate and look at how their overall organization is moving forward. I'm going to stop sharing now and sort of get get back to it. I talked about the positive signals. So um yeah, I I want to introduce these couple of concepts in terms of like marketing innovation. I think that broadly um and it it's it's it's tough for me to say this, but I really think it's the truth. I I really think that marketing is stuck right now and the reason is the reason that I mentioned at the beginning. B2B marketing is stuck because we're with we're stuck with observational insights from sample sizes of one. We're all every company's running their own experiments, but if you aggregated the experiments in a standardized way, you might actually get different data. So what is the sort of like process to overall unlock into the next stage? Like I think a lot of the work that my company's doing if I'm being 100% transparent is very interesting. We've created a way like if you're running a clinical trial in medicine, you need to know you need to have standardized ways to measure blood pressure, blood sugar heart rate, right? We have beats per minute and heart rate. We have milligrams of mercury for blood pressure so that everybody knows when we're making measurements that we're all measuring the same stuff. And in marketing, we don't have that, right? Like so one one company's MQL wins at 0.12% another company's MQL wins at 4%. Some companies call pipeline when an SDR books a meeting, other companies call pipeline after the AE has had a second call with the customer. So there's just uh just a lack of standardization of data. We've solved that. We stand We've We help companies standardize their salesforce data so they can they can look at exactly compared to other organizations how they're doing just like you would using blood pressure or heart or rate beats per minute things like that. Additionally, the way that we operate with so many companies, we actually do sort of see a lot of these trends and patterns at a at a larger scale using standardized data. So we're not fully there yet, but we're certainly making progress on advancing the overall science which would hopefully give marketers more evidence, more confidence to go out and innovate at their own businesses. Um and so I would love this is a totally new concept. Would love uh like qualitative feedback in the chat. If you hated it, would love to to see that and understand why. If you loved it, would love to hear that as well. Um and would love to also jump into questions for people and we don't have to cover questions specific on this topic so we can go in any direction from here. Thank you. Yeah, so first question we have Nicole uh on a question about timeline. Nicole, welcome to Demand Gen Live. Hi guys. Thanks. This is a a really great topic and um I love the phased approach. Uh specifically in the experimental phase the the earlier phases um what's the timeline that you give these to determine if something is successful? Like how long do you give how how long do you give an experiment before you determine it's generating enough revenue or or gaining enough momentum before moving forward? Yeah. So um let me let me approach this in two different directions, okay? So the first direction is that um there are many people out there that are running experiments and they should be moved into stage two or stage three positive signals or repeatability cuz they're working and the fact of the matter is the way that they measure the success of them shows that it's not working so they don't know. Right? Like the reason that our my company knows where those things are is because we implemented self-reported attribution and customers tell us that it's working. So the way that companies measure marketing do not set up this type of framework to work because it's too uh constrained. It's too limit the way that they measure marketing is too limited to transactional digital activities. So um measuring marketing differently would allow marketers that are running experiments to see that they're actually working when they are. Now on the timeline, I think the timeline is variable, but if you do set up all these measurements, we like for the SaaS company that I showed their 50 million ARR SaaS company there's like 70 marketers on their team. We're running experiments and moving their their innovation pipeline forward. We launch uh Reddit ads for the first time and within 7 days we have people coming to their website converting saying they heard about their business on a Reddit ad or they link to the exact subreddit URL. We um have So that's like one extreme, right? You can get these things fast especially when the business like when their innovation pipeline is very mature and there's multiple channels already running. Um conversely like we didn't for me my organic TikTok strategy I started this from zero in February, maybe maybe January. And it's June now and we're just starting to get these like repeatable signals where it moved from stage two to stage three. So the positive signals we probably got in 30 to 45 days and then the the repeatable outcomes to business results were more in four to five months. So you sort of get the range here of like I I I would say somewhere between 30 and 60 days to get positive signals which positive signals like I need to do a better job defining what that means. Does that mean that people are coming to your website converting saying they heard about you from your TikTok page or does that mean that three CMOs are commenting on your TikTok videos saying that it was great. Um so that's on me when I'm in Europe to do a better job defining what would warrant stage it for it to be in each stage. Um but I think generally that the timeline should be 30 to 60 days to get out of the experiment phase and the key point is to set up your measurements so that if it actually is working, you would know. Mhm. Thank you. Happy to help. Great question. All right, next up we've got Anna. Hi, so I have a question about how this relates to customer marketing. I'm in EdTech so we service schools and districts and notoriously in EdTech word of mouth drives the majority of it and so about 70 to 75% of our revenue comes from referrals and um and renewals and on just like the new business side, it's like 60% is driven from referrals, right? So we want to we're doing a really good job at expanding our reach beyond referrals using a lot of the strategies you framed, but we're looking to stand up a customer marketing program. And I want it to be you know really evidence-based and data-driven like our new business side. So I was wondering like what strategies you have for that and what this type of program would look like on a customer marketing side and how you measure success. Totally. First, how do you quantify the referrals? I'd love to know that. We have the how did you hear about us on the um on the form and it's always like a friend, colleague, former user. It Yeah. Wild. It's like once How long have you been doing it for? Uh we've been doing it since about March when I came on to the team. Yeah. W- like what do you what do you think overall about doing it? What's help some other people on here? Yeah, I mean it's completely changed our marketing mix and where we put the money um and our investment like figuring out like exactly like where where we're touching people whether that's first touch, last touch, but like understanding exactly how they're coming in. So it's we've reduced our I mean we've reduced our customer acquisition cost by like 60% in 3 months um and our cost per lead as well. And it's like we are on our way right now to over 2x revenue this year from marketing driven pipeline. Mhm. And you got to no outbound function at the company. So, it's all marketing. Yeah. And you got to the lower uh customer acquisition cost by just eliminating programs that weren't working? Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Uh cool. Awesome. I love that. Let's talk about uh the customer marketing side. I don't I I don't think that I would treat this all that differently. Although, the measurement is the part where it gets like more cloudy, right? You're marketing to existing customers. So, if there was dark social touches, it's going to be difficult to get that in some level of self-reported or qualitative attribution data without some conversation, right? Cuz otherwise they're just going to bypass all the tracking goes directly to a CS um for an upsell or renewal or something like that. So, the um the in all strategies of marketing, the measurement of customer marketing is challenging. Um it's the same thing that happens with influenced revenue of net new, right? You could you won't like you only do things that you can track. Right? A lot of customer marketing teams get sort of stuck in this like events, email, um other things that are very easy to measure um because if you step out and you actually move it into dark social, which is way more impactful on driving retention, upsells, uh customer loyalty, things like that. If you move to that, then the customer marketing function based on the way that it's measured is difficult to say whether or not it's doing anything. Um So, with all of that said, what I would be looking for is I'd be looking to do programs and and narrow in on positive signals. So, like what are the things that we're doing and what is the stuff that we're getting back to know from customers that it's working? So, for instance, like let's talk through what's an example of a customer marketing program that you either want to do or you're doing right now. Yeah. So, we're um our platform enables teachers to give points to students for positive behavior. It's a uh education strategy. So, we want to do something where we're giving points to teachers who are you like reach meet the certain thresholds in our product that they can rack up those points then go to our own store like they have a store in their school that students can buy from using their points. So, that they get points from us and can go buy. Uh so, like what those look like are very early stages of developing it, but that might be, you know, engaging on social media. Like just we get a ton of great customer feedback. So, it'd be like, "Hey, here are 20 points for you for doing that." And they can then shop in our store. That would be an example. Like we want to Our mission is to build positive school culture and so we want to also do that in in in schools that are really struggling right now with like teacher retention and teacher morale. Mhm. So, the KPI would be more adoption of this feature. Yeah. Yeah. Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. So, like let's talk through an example of a marketing strategy that I would The first thing that came to my mind about how I would try to accomplish this. So, the thing that I would try to do to accomplish this is I would try and find evangelist level customers. I would try and get some level of like low production value like video testimonial type of thing that feels a lot more like not stuffy, you know what I mean? Like we're doing this, it's working at my school, it's working for me, whatever they say. Get 10 of those videos. And I would take the 10 videos and I would run them to a cohort of your customers. And so then I would like let's say you have a thousand customers, I would run it to a sample of the 200 customers and then I would see if the adoption of that feature moves within 30 to 90 days. Yeah. Okay. And that makes sense. And then I think where part of it like what I'm getting hung up on is then beyond measuring like the positive signals, like how does marketing then report on the revenue impact of this beyond like tracking more referrals, but especially on like the renewal and upsell side. It's like if we're increasing teacher usage of these features and then schools are renewing because more teachers are using them and bought in, like how do we step in and and show that we're making an impact on revenue? Is there a revenue metric we can own like pipeline on the new business side? So, um I am The answer that I'm going to give you is for me as a CEO, but it probably won't work for everybody, right? The idea that marketing's going to be able to say like with a specificity that we impacted this much on renewals just makes no sense, right? Like it's not a knock on your question. It's just like for impact to help people understand. Like it would be like um like I don't like somebody saying like just because you have this quarterback that that's the reason that you won the game, right? Um and so I think that we need to be looking at business metrics as a business. You know what I mean? Like we retention goes up because all these things are working. Customer marketing's working, customer success is working, sales is closing the right customers, product is delivering product that customers want. And that's why that the combination of all of those things is why retention goes up. And so then if that's if we all agree that that's sort of the way that it should be looked at, then it's backing into what is the input for customer marketing to achieve that outcome. Um and for me it would be like feature adopt like potentially feature adoption would be a great way to to do it. Um Like there's probably some level of like in like increasing time to value or helping customers hit a leading metric of retention sooner. There's probably some level of like an account engagement score for customers. Like how many of our customers are coming to our events? Do we like whatever things like that? There's probably some ways to measure how customer marketing is contributing to that, but it's truly a contribution, not a not the only reason it's happening. So, I sort of I recognize that most business leader I hope like as I just explained it, I hope that most business leaders that listen to that get that cuz it seems pretty obvious to me that one core function is not going to drive a business level outcome. Um But I recognize that that's that way of thinking may not fly with everybody. Awesome. Thank you so much. Happy to help. Keep it rolling. Look forward to hearing more about the positive stuff that you're doing. All right. Next up we have Justin Brock. You there, Justin? Looks like he's still on mute. There he is. Justin. All right. Why don't we uh next we got Bob Acello. Justin, we'll come back to you if you can get uh I'm ready Todd. It just wasn't letting me unmute myself. Oh, okay. There we go. Justin, what's up, man? Looking forward to chatting with you and the team in a week or two. Yeah, that's going to be good. There's like 80 of me on this meeting because all my team joined with my link. So. Nice. Um Okay, I wanted to go back I might I might I guess this might give you a chance to do a first draft of what you're going to do in a couple weeks. Um you listed Reddit, Quora, other channels like that. Could you give an example? Maybe take one of them and go through what you would see as positive signals at each stage of maturity? Um and then what you may like on some of the things you were saying you do organic first and then you you watch what happens in organic and then you do paid for that. Do you ever flip it? Like do you ever use paid to get test results faster? Um Yeah. To perfect. Yeah, I'm happy to answer both of those two separate questions. The first The second question you asked is I think pretty straightforward, so I'll answer it first. Um so, the answer is yes. Definitely, there are places like in um 2017 when I was working at this company called Vapor Therm and we were targeting hospitals. Like and like we were trying to grow like then, right? We didn't have time to methodically grow from zero Facebook page followers to 20,000. So, I leveraged I did it the exact opposite. We created content, I ran it through paid, and then the things that worked on paid I posted organic. And so the paid drove followers, the organic continued to drive followers, and within a six or nine-month period of time we had 20,000 engaged followers on our Facebook page, and the paid engine was really working. So, I do think there are places, especially companies that are either mature, sort of like how your business is, or are venture funded and are sort of like the time time matters more. I think in instances where like in my business it's professional services. Um Like pretty pretty high ticket offering. For some of those requires a lot more trust from companies and then buying a like 10K ACV product. For some of those reasons, I think that in those places it's much better to establish presence organically and then use paid to amplify because the margin profiles are different in professional services. You don't make as much gross margin. You don't have as much room for customer acquisition cost cuz the valuations are different. So, there are some businesses that lend itself to using paid more aggressively than others. Um And when it comes to the the positive signals, it's really looking at like if you think about a product development pipeline in like a five-stage pipeline, they call it like in one framework it's called stage gate. I'll just use it as an example. It's not the one that I necessarily recommend or prefer, but I'll just use it as an example. Like between each phase, there's a gate and in order to get past the gate, you need to deliver certain things, right? So within feasibility, it must probably like a project plan, cost targets, like um approved budget, we have we have established vendors, whatever those things are and then you move to the next phase and then to get to another phase, you like stage four might be a beta trial where in order to get from there to commercial launch, you need to have 10 customers that deliver an NPS greater than eight or you have 10 uh beta customers that hit a leading metric of retention or you operate on qualitative feedback or anything, but you can see how each stage will have different criteria to determine where it moves. So now I'll walk through each of them. Um and I'll bring bring this up so the people have a visual as well. So um all the all the paid channels are going to have generally the same sort of like dynamics and exit criteria. I'm working on formalizing this, but I'll just talk through it out loud and I appreciate the question. It'll help me get there. So from phase one to phase two, what we're looking for is is positive signals. That does not mean that like we launched Reddit and it's driving millions of dollars of revenue, right? What we're looking for is that people are either positively responding to the content, meaning they're commenting and saying good things, meaning they're sending us DMs and saying this is really helpful, meaning that they're filling out consultation forms on our website saying that they heard about us from this channel, right? So those are some of the potential positive signals that I'll work on formalizing in the coming weeks. Uh that would get you from stage phase one to phase two, right? We did stuff and we got a signal back that there's something here, right? So then you get to phase two. You're in phase two and you're sort of continuing to do stuff and what you're looking for here now is in stage three, it's really repeatability to business outcomes. And so for us, we know that when people fill out our request a consultation form that 11% of raw conversions will become a customer and 20 4 or 26% of people that get into a meeting become a customer. So we really have a good track to to business outcomes off of this form. And so from phase two to phase three is really we're getting repeatable conversions coming through that form that we win at at a high rate to revenue coming through that form saying they heard about us from that channel. So TikTok belongs in this column for us right now cuz it's probably been like three or four weeks in a row where we've gotten at least one submission from a marketing leader at a target fit like a good fit customer saying that they want to work with us and they heard about us on TikTok. So then TikTok belongs in repeatability. Moving from repeatability to operationalizing scale is probably one of the most challenging step It's probably from phase one or from phase two to phase three and from phase three to phase four are probably the most challenging ones. And from phase three to phase four, repeatability to operationalizing scale is probably the most challenging. Because you have to go from it delivering like on TikTok delivering one conversion per week for four weeks to figuring out how it delivers 10 or 20 per week. Right? Which forces you to think about how this is where we add technology, process, resources, more people or talent like new talent uh different level of investment. So it could be increasing the paid budget to try and make this work. There's you're basically in in experimentation mode to try and figure out how am I going to get this to move from getting like a some level of result to being to to it being a real business driver and a competitive advantage. And so from that one, it goes from repeatable outcome of one conversion per week for a sustained period of time to being one of the most meaningful contributors to the business. Um so for some companies that we work for like getting LinkedIn to go from phase three to phase four can take three to six months, LinkedIn paid that is. To really figure out what are we going to need to produce the content at this volume? How are we going to be able like to increase the budget, we need to create more content to increase the scale, we need to figure out how to potentially widen the audience while maintaining the impact. There are tests and things that need to go on in order for that stuff to happen. Then you get to phase four um where it's a key business driver delivering tons of like everyone in the business is going to know when it's at stage four if you have the appropriate notification system. So like we use a notification system where people when they fill out that form, it pushes into Slack. It's a public channel that everyone in the company has and they can see name, job title uh company, company size, how did you hear about us, which is where we get all of these interesting insights for create demand strategies. And so all the company sort of sees like they know that the podcast is working cuz they see those notifications come in and we get two to five of them every day that say they came from the podcast. And then I'm sort of playing around with what stage five means. Um right now it's like it's what I call fully integrated into the mix um where like it's truly a it's it's truly a part of the it's almost how to like it's truly just like autonomously running. So like you don't need to have your key demand people focused on it anymore, right? Now it's been figured out how to be operationalized, we know how to measurement, it's a stable contributor and then sort of like the people that are back doing the innovation and the science would go back and focus on other channels and figure out how to make them work faster or figure out how to make new executions inside of proven channels work too, right? So you could figure out we got LinkedIn paid going, but now our team's going to go and figure out how to take the paid strategy and figure out how to make LinkedIn organic work or something like that. So at a high level, I know that was sort of like uh not 100% direct cuz I'm still thinking through it, but that's sort of how I'm thinking about it. Hello and he's got a couple questions. So this may close us out. Hey Chris. How you doing there? good to see you, man. Hey hey good. So I got a bunch of interesting things going on here and I'm not sure not sure which which will be most interesting to your to your audience, but I started running some Google search uh ad campaigns and as you know uh you know, that's not really what what I've been focused on for the last couple years. So not a lot of experience, but I've been running it to that DTC market I talked to you about for our for our um eye exam locations. And I'm seeing some really interesting data. Number one the ads aren't really deploying very many dollars, but they're getting thousands of impressions and I although I can't track conversions through our site because the actual booking of an exam happens in our EMR on a different domain. Yeah. So I have no way of actually telling what click results in dollars, but I'm running a report through my EMR that is showing me upward trends at these locations since I started placing these ads in booked exams. So it appears that it's booking, let's just say dozens of exams for a couple of dollars per location, which is a home run for us. It's a it's a gigantic home run if it actually is true. So a couple of my questions because I don't have data of what's actually working um I'm looking at like one of the particular ads, it is deploying some dollars and some of the things that are being clicked on are things that I'm wondering if I should click as like and make them a negative keyword. Because I'm looking at it and going like free eye exam online is not what we do. But if it got a click and it cost me $8 and they booked an exam, I would keep it. But I don't know. So at this stage, I'm kind of just letting it run as like a data gathering and then maybe at some point make a decision. Do I do I click these as negative keywords? Do I let them run? You know, I don't know if I'm this is helpful to anyone else who maybe I don't know how much experience people have on Google search, but this is brand new um world for me. So I figured I'd ask your insights and you know, any insights you might give me to to kind of uh keep an eye on this as I as I deploy it. Yeah, totally. Um generating a lot of impressions, but not a lot of clicks is common or generating a lot of impressions and not costing a lot of money is common because they charge by the click, not by the impression. So that makes sense to me and it's it could be because you're showing up for a lot of irrelevant searches. So the ads are being deployed, but they're not being clicked for because the person what they're searching for doesn't match what you're offering. So that's a possibility. We take it's rare that we don't negative out the word free. So anyone searching free financial business software or free sales enablement spreadsheet, like any free search, we're typically not I'm not I don't want to pay $8 for that click, you know what I mean? So um I'm not going to make a blanket statement cuz there are places where people would want to bid on the word free, but I think in your situation, it would make sense to negative it out. Um I don't know if this is possible, but like there the um the parallel that I've seen before in product led businesses is this. We spend a lot of money on Google, we see sign-ups going up, we invest more in Google, we see more sign-ups going up, but we never see more revenue created. So this is a um that's pretty much like more or less what I heard from you. So what you what what product led companies should be looking at and what you should be looking at is the step after the sign up. Did they actually go to the exam? Right? So, and you're not going to know who they are, so you got to figure out how to close you got to figure out how to close the data gap or you're just going to be guessing. Um in capturing demand strategies for transactional conversions like Google search, you should have perfect measurement to know what's working and what's not. And if you don't, it makes it makes it really hard to make decisions. An exam alternative example is that we've tried a tons of times to use ads to increase the subscribership of podcasts for our customers and for our own. And the fact of the matter is that you have people clicking off of LinkedIn or Facebook ads and going into the Apple podcast or Spotify podcast and you never know whether they hit subscribe, who they were, whether or not it worked. So, you're just paying for clicks and you have no idea what the outcomes are. And so, you end up killing a lot you end up killing those programs just for lack of visibility. So, um I would say you got to figure out how to close the data gap like it one of the things that you could do is try and put Hotjar on this other website or something like that where you can just and then you can just sort by the UTM so you can see what are people doing that come from Google you Google paid UTMs into this thing. So, that that would be one um you could see what information they actually fill out. So, like a lot of Google uh product-led growth sign-ups come from spam bots and you can see it in the data. Like if you look at the name, companies, title, things like that, it's like job title literally like these are the things that I've seen, stripper, firefighter, like totally irrelevant job type, school teacher. You got people filling out stuff like this and their job title their company will be something legit. Um the name will not make sense. So, if you qualitatively audit the submissions, you might find some things that make it make you feel confident or less confident just based on the audit of those submissions, but again, you don't have the UTMs, so you don't know which submissions are coming from where. Um So, in short quite customer bases across national retail, we could very likely have titles like strippers and firemen. So, Here's what I would do. I would actually I would um I would do I would take the ads and redirect them to your own website and I would just have them convert there and then just see what happens. So, you're not going to actually get the person to book, but you're going to be able to see who's booking and what are like what are they doing. That's one idea, but you got to The long and short of it is you got to find a way to close the data gap or you're just going to guess the whole time. No, sure. And and I you know, we can we can measure, you know, exams completed and I can see if there's a different percentage over time of exams completed since I started running these ads or not, but that's great. And I guess that you know, Chris on on a on a closing note, I don't know you know, you got a couple minutes here left, but um if it isn't evident, I I so desperately need to hire like a director of marketing who knows how to do all this stuff that I've been I've I've had my fingers in. And my question to you would be you know, the type of person I need to hire for the role is exactly what you tell everyone not to do. So, you know, I like I I have that army of one need, the person who can do everything in a startup environment which like you pretty much always tell everyone like don't ever do it. Um you know, Don't ever don't ever do it in the situation where the leadership doesn't understand marketing, they're not investing in it and they have too many sales reps. That's when it gets messy, but Yeah, we're upside down on it. So, I mean I I definitely have communicated as you know, my leadership my I report to the CEO and he's he's um you know, he's bought into this and he's said, "Okay, you know, go find somebody that can do what it is you want them to do." And I'm just wondering like how do I set that up if I don't know if you have a minute or two that you could share like what would you want to see me I don't have too many sales reps. I'm doing that, too. You know, so so like how do I set it up so that you bring someone I can bring someone in who I can say, "Here, like this is what I've been trying to do. Take it to the next level and let's build this thing out. Let's like you're the first person in marketing to go do you're like the first marketing hire and they would be reporting to me who at least has been dialed into you for 2 years. Like is that a more real situation? I would I would find someone that's more senior and try and pay them as a consultant for 10 10 hours a month and you'll get more out of them for 10 hours a month than you would a full-time employee. So, a fractional? Okay. you sort of get the you you get the initial like can someone do this which will give you the you'll start to give you the confidence that these things work and and I could bring someone in and they would be set up for success. And then if that starts to work, then you could probably have someone else come in and work with that person and then take it over. It just sort of de-risks the it de-risks it for the employee and for you. Got it. Appreciate it. Cool. You got one more, Todd, or are we ready to go? Yes, Justin actually had a follow-up on his previous question. So, I'm going to bring him back on to ask that. Let's do it. Hey, sorry. You So, you got to talking about your uh your team and how you'll move people off of something to go back into the innovation. Could you just elaborate a little bit on how you have people organized for like let's say you want to launch Twitter or you want to prove its viability for driving business outcomes. Are there handoffs? Yeah, so um an un an unlock thinking for me as both a CEO and a marketing leader has been the idea of this split between running the business and changing the business. And the fact of the matter is that if you share the responsibility if you're one person and you share the responsibility of changing the business and running the business in a B2B tech company, what's going to happen is that push is going to come to shove and you're always going to be focused on running the business, which is why there's no innovation. Right? And so, if a company thought differently and they said, "We're going to have our like our R&D team do focus on R&D and we're going to have everyone else focus on hitting the goals that are set for us, right? So, like imagine a company your company might have I don't know, 50 to 100 marketers. I'm guessing here, but you got a lot of people on the team. Could you would it be worth carving out like five people that are only focused on how are we going to create a competitive advantage in the future? Right? Like the company set up a think tank outside of their org like that for a reason because it needs to be outside the org or all the constraints of running the current business pull people back into that where they don't innovate. So, it's not necessarily like that we practice it as an organization yet, but it's something that I'm thinking about a lot because um even me as a CEO need to be like switching back from running the business which running the business is basically like like we need to hit quota this quarter. We need to like those types of things versus like how are we going to go out and figure out TikTok and if you have the choice between I'm not going to hit my goal this month and I got to figure out how TikTok's going to work in 9 months from now, you will always choose I got to hit the goal this month. Um so, and so having a team that's focused on getting stuff through from stage one to stage four, which is very difficult part of the innovation cycle, and then as you operationalize and scale, then you're adding in the resource that can actually run it. Right? So, up to stage three, it can be a controlled experiment. All we're looking for is repeatability. You need like one creative, one marketer. You don't need much to actually figure out how to make it repeatable, but then how to operationalize it, we might need to go out and buy technology, we might need to hire three video editors, we might need to like do a couple of those things and you got basically a full team to to work on running it. So, um And is that is that typically like we're a product company. So, is that would that be a cross-functional type team? Like would it be like my team's all demand gen. Mhm. Marketers, digital marketers, but would that be something that I would in try to put together people from product or people from product marketing or other like is it is it that kind of a team? I I imagine that there are some instances where that might be advantageous in like super enterprise long sales cycle or PLG, but maybe not in the middle. I I haven't thought about this too much, but like when I when I bring this up mainly, I'm bringing it up of like thinking about how we innovate in demand. So, yeah. And do you have a certain budget percentage that's for R&D within the demand team? I haven't thought about it enough to give you an educated answer, and so I'll think about it more and get back to you when we when we meet in a couple weeks, I'll have an answer for you. Awesome. Yeah, thanks. Cool. Thanks, Justin. Great questions. All right. Cool. If there were any other questions, we'll take those down. I'll answer them on a future like Demand Gen Live or or ask me anything or anything like that. For those of you that don't know, we've added a couple of like in during the day lives. I do a TikTok Live at 5:00 p.m. Eastern on Tuesdays. We do this every other Tuesday. So, if you're interested in asking questions and sort of like uh getting I'll just call it what it is. It's basically free free consulting. So, if you're interested in sort of asking questions and getting help from me, I'd I'd love to help. It's one of the things where I learn a ton from helping and I get a lot of uh a satisfaction about helping people uh hit goals, too. So, if you're interested in coming to any of those, it'd be great. Um this has been the first attempt in me sort of explaining this concept of thinking about marketing like R&D, thinking about innovation, and how how people practice medicine versus how we practice marketing. So, um I appreciate you all sort of like going with me for this. It It helps me a lot to be able to have an audience and sort of like express myself and and try and figure it out as we go. And so, I would if I were you I'd expect this topic to get a lot more fully formed in the next month. To have uh a lot more clearer definitions of the stages, to have a lot more clear about where like how do we select which ones go into the experiments, how do we prioritize, um what do we do once something is in stage five. So, I think there'll be a lot more guidance coming out in how to think about this, but I I love like just when I think about something sort of like laying a framework out there because we're I I build in public. So, a lot of you might take that, build the Asana board tomorrow, and put it into practice at your company, and then you'll learn things that I don't know. Um so, if you all end up doing that, I'd appreciate just like Anna did on the self-reported attribution today. If you're doing some of the taking the stuff and putting it into practice and things are working for you or you're learning stuff, I'd love if you shot me a DM or asked a question on here or anything so that I can get those insights as well. So, appreciate having you all here. Can't wait to see you. Uh we'll do the next live episode that we do that I'll be doing is on uh June 28th, Tuesday, June 28th, 7:30 p.m. Eastern for Demand Gen Live. And uh look forward to seeing you all there. Have
