# The Best B2B Influencer Marketing Strategy in 2026

**Expert:** Dave Gerhardt
**Video ID:** -B1xZs9rdYo
**YouTube URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-B1xZs9rdYo
**Transcript Length:** 47554 characters

---

## Transcript

This episode is all about influencer marketing for B2B. Every time I bring up influencer marketing in a podcast or in webinar, someone says, "Yeah, okay, but that only works if you're Mastercard or if you have milliondoll budgets." So, today we're going to kill that excuse. My guest is Ishv Jolly. She's founder and CEO of Open Sponsorship. She's an Oxford alum, Forbes 30 under 30, and a former sports agent, and her company connects brands with over 30,000 athletes and influencers across 100 different sports categories. and half of her business is now non-athlete creators, too. Maybe like your favorite B2B marketing influencer. In this episode, we get into why B2B brands should be paying attention to influencer marketing right now, how to actually make it work without a seven figure budget, why most B2B influencers campaigns flop, and how to think about creators as a content engine, not a direct response channel. I think this is a super interesting and relevant topic right now as people are shifting budgets away from Google and Meta to real people in order to win and stand out in the world of AI. Enjoy my conversation all about B2B influencers with Ishv Jolly. All right, I'm excited to do this episode. Uh Ishv Jolly is here and she's the founder and CEO of Open Sponsorship. And when we first got connected, I was like, then this is really cool to me because I like marketing and I like sports and I always wondered how deals get done. But I was like, I don't know if it makes sense to have you on the pod because this isn't really B2B. And you're like, no, actually a lot of what we do is B2B. and uh I was like, "Heck yes, this I'm excited to have you on." So, first, can you give me some background on you? You're you know, you have an impressive impressive resume here. I got in my my prep notes, CEO of Open Sponsorship, which is a marketplace that connects brands with athletes and influencers for sponsorship deals. Uh you've been on Forbes 30 under 30, Oxford alum. You were former sports agent, which we should we should dive into that. And now open sponsorship works with 30,000 athletes across a 100 sports Olympic uh Olympians, NFL players, and niche sports figures. What's an example of a niche sports of a niche sports figure, by the way? >> Ah, yeah. It's a bit rude, isn't it, to to anyone who's in that that um >> Well, I'm not saying you said this. I'm sorry. I'm I'm our producer, our AI, you know, note prep came up with that. It's not that you that said it. I'm just curious. Honestly, so many different unique sports that have Let's just stick to B2B and try and stick to B2B and all the answers, but like equestrian's really interesting. We have quite a few questions on our own team. >> Um high netw worth mostly that's a stereotype I think it kind of lives out. Very loyal following. Um some for participation, some for viewership, but it's definitely niche. >> Okay. Can you tell me about the the brief overview of like how you got into this creating open open sponsorship you're you know going from an agent to to here and why this is an interesting business. Basically set the stage for us with the business and then I have a bunch of things we're going to get into. >> Yeah absolutely. Wellie thanks for having me on. Thanks for reconsidering. Um >> yeah um I started my career well I suppose I got into sports because I played a lot. So I was keen student athlete at university. I know you love um sports as well. And so then >> what did you play? Were you equestrian? Is that you say that? Do you play equestrian? >> You play do equestrian I think. >> Yeah. I don't know. [laughter] >> So I was mostly so I grew up in England, hence the accent. Um and I mostly played netball and cricket at university, but honestly like if if if there was a spot on a team or a tennis racket or anything to hand, I'm like I'm in. Let me let me go. Um so love sports, graduated from Oxford, studied economics and management, was very much supposed to be on a quite a different trajectory, became a management consultant and then realized like my passion for sport was beyond kind of just on the field. So um moved to India, um thought, you know, if I'm going to piss my parents off once, let me do it twice. Moved to India, became a sports agent and um the rest is history. fell in love with sponsorship as a form of marketing and um fast forward thought why is there not a better way to do it and then very naively set up open sponsorship about 10 years ago. >> That's super cool. And how how do you how does your business like make make money? >> So we essentially um as you can imagine 10 years of running a startup growing company. We've evolved over time. So at first we started off as a self-service marketplace. So we charged but I suppose the business model's always been the same but we we charge our brands a kind of management fee to run everything for them which we you know we can talk about later but big reason um for a lot of our learnings and lessons is like getting involved on the strategy piece. So we charge a monthly like management fee, subscription platform, whatever you want to call it. And then we take a cut of the deal from the athlete influencer side. Um, and so that's our revenue. >> Cool. Do do you think there's is this becoming more relevant now in the context of B2B because of what's happening with AI and search and how people find and research and get information about brands. I'm feeling a pull in our business of just like more in-person stuff. Uh, I'm seeing CMOs spending more on out of home again trying to do more interesting things other than just put the credit card down and spend more money with Google, Meta, you know, >> um TV. Is is there a trend there that that that is am I am I getting at? Is there anything I'm I'm getting at with like wanting to be everywhere in in person? Yeah, I think the trend is that I would actually say interestingly I think it started during co um when I speak to a lot of like creators um I'm always like so how did you sack your day job and become an influencer and I'd say like seven out of 10 say they started in co um because everyone was at home and we became more addicted to our phones we started following social media more people became influencers more and so whether they took off afterwards or whatever else and I think that was probably like trend one where CMOs um and like decision makers were scrolling so many more hours online and that that and then obviously also that was the rise of like Netflix and everything else which meant exactly to your point like attentions you know that the I I think live sports obviously has an amazing following but what co did to live life sports moving everyone to like Netflix in that moment. I'm not it's come back but it's not fully come back. So I think co was definitely a first and then I think AI for what you're saying like that authenticity um is absolutely huge and I think for the B2B side it's what we've seen is that mix of social and um offline like so you might have an event great before you'd have that event and it was done and dusted. Now you can invite 10 people, you could turn up, record a live podcast. Now suddenly loads of people are seeing it, 10 influencers show up. And so the amplification through creators and >> yeah through social has been like this connection. So so for me uh I I love sports. The the number one sport in my life right now is is golf. >> And golf is a really interesting one from a brand standpoint because it's much more it is more individualbased. you know, if you play for the Boston Celtics, you might have your own you might have your own brand deals, but uh the the team has those sponsorships, but but in golf, I'm you know, I'm Dave and I might have, you know, and I I love it because I I come from kind of enterprise software and B2B and tech >> and I love seeing like a random PGA tour player with, you know, some like I'm like, what the heck is that? and I Google and it's like some you know cyber security like AI company or um you know there's I'm just thinking of a recent PJ tour winner Matt Fitzpatrick has work workday on his on his shirt but what's interesting is it's like you don't just get that exposure on TV during that tournament it is exactly what you said it's not just the co thing it's it's that because of social media everyone now can be their own influencer and so you go to his Instagram and he's you know filming content with them and there's more%, >> you know, brand activation. There's more things that are that are possible. I was just listening to them talk about this guy Tommy, I don't know if you're familiar with Golf at all, but this guy Tommy Fleetwood signing a big, you know, brand deal with a company. And I never thought about it is like what you get as a sponsor if you're sponsoring him is like you then get a couple times a year where you can say, "Hey, we have him at our we have him at this special p we rent out this private place. He's going to be there. you can we're going to bring 50 of our top you know if you're deote whatever you're going to bring 50 of your top clients to that and create a bunch of content and and so I'm like okay this is interesting so how does this relate to I I think our audience there's there's a handful of people that are you know billion at billion dollar plus companies CMOs that listen to us but I think the majority the reason I want to have you on is because I wonder if there's a middle ground here where is there a play where you can I don't want to say micro influencer but is there some middle level here and I I kind see you nodding along to this and I I I want to unpack that a little bit what that might look like for for a B2B brand. So, if I'm a B2B, you know, I I'm a cyber security software company in this world and I'm trying to think about ways we can grow in 2026 2027. Um, how do I work sports into that equation? >> 100%. And I love the question because especially after the classic move which was like talking about like Tommy Fleetwood, everyone's like well those budgets I don't have. So it is really >> always dude we do I mean we do like every webinar we ever do it's like no matter any example that I give someone always is say well of course it'd be easy if I was Mastercard and I'm like yeah but no this does exist and this is your whole business so I want to talk about it. >> Absolutely. and imperfect. So 100% and I'd say I think that what sometimes people might miss is like well Tommy Fleetwood of course you'd pick that any day if you had the budget golf winner whatever else but the thing being is like the B2B authentic side is um when you think about athletes especially like you know they invest in businesses they have like their own side hustles um actually most of these golfers are structured as a probably like an LLC anyway way they have like really um complicated tax structures because whenever they play in a different country if they win they have to pay tax there. So there's almost like how do you create authenticity to your business? So that's the first point which is like don't just see it as like well it was a billboard or it's like a media day because I'm sure that I'd like to think if they're not they should call us but like I'm sure that all of these sponsorships have got some like interesting integration like my favorites are like you know the NFL with AWS where it's like >> all the stats behind the game powered by AWS. It's like such a perfect um >> Yeah. Or like the in golf it's like the masters in IBM. IBM does all of their video and stats and data and so they have the best website because they have access to all that. Is that is that what you mean by being au So authenticity could come in there's some deeper brand level integration but it could also come with hey we're choosing to work with this athlete because this person has a particular backstory that's interesting that relates to us in some way >> 100%. Yeah, perfect. Absolutely. It could. Yeah, 100%. Which we'll get to maybe on medical side that could be quite interesting. But so for us, I'll give you a couple of like real life like examples of what we're working with right now. So um two brands that come to mind. So we're working with a company called Summit who they're an insurance company in Canada and they are known you know insurance is all about like protecting yourself from risk. Who takes a lot of risk? skiers or like snowboarders or people like that. So there's your tie in, but they as a company um to your point Dave have you know they're not like one of the biggest founder own they've raised a bit of money but so you know it's like what can we do with like a 10 to 15k check and that can go quite a long way. Um and why why can it go quite a long way because you know B2B you need stuff to talk about. I mean, every business needs stuff to talk about, but like you can't just be like, "Hey, here's, you know, we we're B2B." Like, we refreshed our website. Great, no one cares. It's like, okay, here's a story about one of our case studies or users or whatever else. And so, here's just another angle. And what we have found is um that like again actually what's interesting about going with smaller budgets is you might not even need the athlete or the influencer to post on their social because most of their audience is not your customer. But what you want is the link between you and them. And when you don't get them to post, it's actually even cheaper. And so we just did this a company called Sport Radar. They are like the data providers for most broadcast sport. kind of like similar to what you were saying, they literally gave us a 5K budget for March Madness and they were like, "What can you do?" And so we got three coaches who produced videos of like this is how we use data in our like, you know, March Madness campaign. They didn't need to post it already. Really authentic. They knew the company and they go out and push that through case studies and obviously that performs just so much better because it's someone else telling your story. >> Yeah. Well, it's almost like getting them to post. We we we talk about this. So, we have a sponsorship business with with my company with Exit Vibe. Our our our difference is like our audience is marketers and so our sponsors are people who want to reach B2B marketers and >> we've been doing this for four years now and I've learned so much about what works because a lot of the companies at first would want to would want to work with me and have me because I before Exit 5 I had a big following. So it's like let's get Dave to post this and if he posts this you know ebook we're going to get you know thousands of downloads and it just doesn't doesn't work like that and and in order to move it it's very hard to especially in B2B move product with a single post because the the deal cycle in B2B is you know could be years. It could it's it's the average that we we heard on a pod is uh 211 days from from LinkedIn. So me posting like check out this piece of software like no one's going to just go rush to buy that. And so then it has to be like well what what game are we playing? And it's more of like um do you have a key message right now? Do you have could we could we be an avenue to help you? Like could our sponsorship be a way to help you promote a a message, right? Yeah. >> And then instead of like a direct response offer and so you saying like yeah if I'm going to work with an athlete like what what's an athlete going to do to if an athlete goes to their Instagram and posts an offer about some you know [snorts] ebook in in B2B like of course that audience is going to explode. But if I can sign an agreement with someone and I can have film and videos and content I'm basically now able to trade on their brand and use use them in my in my marketing. That's like a signal. it can be a signal for for brand awareness, for for power, for influence, and then hopefully also there's there's ways to to integrate. What I also think is interesting is not just going for the biggest influencers that you can find in in any niche. It's like what's cool about social media is there's a whole cast of if I just open my Instagram and I click on my for you page, you know, there's people that have 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 followers that, you know, maybe probably are still, this is different from what you do. Just trying to make a point, but like are probably still working full-time in a different job, but they're trying to like >> become a content creator and be an influencer. So they're often willing to do deals with you for lower dollars amount lower dollar amounts and then you can actually find a way to test into this. Is there anything similar that you've learned on on your end with with athletes? Like if I wanted to advertise if I want to get Exit 5, uh if I want to say, "Hey, Exit 5 is sponsoring a PGA Tour player." Like there's got to be a way I could have some kind of like third tier level, you know, PGA Tour player that I could I could put Exit 5 on on his shirt, right? >> 100%. There's so there's a there's defin there's like a few things actually where that that we've learned kind of over time. So full disclosure like we started athletes but today actually 50% of our deals are athletes still which is what we love but like 50% is non-athlete. So financial influencers, mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom influencers I'd say apart from beauty and fashion we take every niche podcasters and things like that right and so I think why that's happened is because athletes are really good for like story golf is an exception because you're reaching that CMO CXO which is why it's so valuable but um for others it's like you're using that kind of name image likeness but then someone else could be for audience so for example like people might sponsor people will sponsor your podcast for the audience, but as you said, like there's only so many times that they Dave can hit them the same message. So, they get you get them like some funnel and then they might use an athlete for story or vice versa, right? Um you might find it's the cheapest to acquire customers leads through like a Facebook, >> but there's only so many times you can hit them with the same like ad and then this is where kind of um the uniqueness comes in. So I'd say like I think that interplay of like well what's your success metric? What what is your limiting factor? Like you know we did a campaign with glass door and it's like you have a million people in your CRM. The problem is is that when you send out an email if it's boring whereas like sports allows you you know everyone's talking about the Knicks, everyone's talking about FIFA World Cup like be part of that conversation. And to your point now how can I be part of that conversation without spending a million dollars? Let's get a basketball content creator. Let's get an analyst. Let's get a G-League player or let's get a college player. Let's get someone who's in in the conversation. But yes, not Jaylen Brunson. If you can afford it, great. But if you can't, then there's all these other people who are relevant. >> Okay. So since since you're you expand beyond sports and work with mom influencers, B2B marketing influencers, sale, whatever it is, um, one of the things that comes up a lot is like a lot of a lot of B2B marketers believe in influencer strate in influencer marketing today, but they often say like, hey, we want to do an influencer campaign. Like, how do you find influencers? Do you have an answer to that? I have an answer but I don't want to tell you because I don't want I have a bad habit of like >> um I would say I think doing it doing one and doing one well is very two different things. It's very agreed. >> Okay. So I think let's do it well. Let's say we're defining it by doing it well. >> What sorry let let's start with the other what would not well what would what would not well look like? Not well is the wrong budget. Probably too big a budget which means that you don't want to go again. You're like I there's a budget to test and then there's a budget that is not a test budget and you fail and you you're burnt. So I would say test budget fine. You can you can do it not well and learn and that's absolutely allowed. >> Sure. >> Right. >> Sure. Well, let's just make up a number. We'll say 10 grand versus 100 grand. Right. like on that on that scale 10 grand we're going to do something and learn okay budget >> budget could be one mistake >> what about as far as like >> content right because I think it's like this is where it comes down to this is where I've seen most things break which is like well now hold on hold on we're spending money on something like we wouldn't run Adwords campaigns without a landing page and a call to action and so you know I've had people that want to work with me and it's like okay we want you to post on this date and here's the here's the ebook and here is the UTM perfectly trackable link. I'm like, dude, no one's going to click on that. So, we have to like >> we have to come up with a campaign. How what's the it's like the offer is is the is the piece that I'm trying to get at. >> Yeah. I think so. My second thing for like that you need to do up front with or without a partner, right? So this is kind of why we went into being more like a tech- enabled agency is because people were coming exactly that here's what we want to do and we're like this is not going to work and then it doesn't work and they're like okay thank you so much it didn't work and it's like oh that tear my hair out. Um and so what is success now if you're like I want to get landing page views I just don't know if influencer is the right method for that. It might be after you've tried and tested that influencer, their audience has bought in and then you can put paid and actually in fact I would they would never be the right person for it their content. >> What would be what's a proper what's a proper goal then? Because I think some most likely the goal is going to be like well I want I want more people to buy my product. >> Yeah. >> But getting someone to just post something doesn't magically get people to buy your product either. Do you have examples of like matching? How do we help coach people on the right the right offer and influencer match? >> So I would say kind of mentioned it before but like so you have to think about your whole infrastructure. Do do you have a PR agency? Do you have a media paid budget? Do you have a very good website email marketing team? Do you have a podcast agency? Like who do you have? Where are you spending? Um and what might need help? And then influencer like a content creator kind of sits as like a basically like you said like a content generation machine feeding into those not in isolation typically. Um, and I was going to say unless you sponsor someone really big, but even then, like if you built a whole campaign campaign around Jaylen Brunson, um, you would need all of those things to be working, right? Like you could put into your contract, hey, we're going to secure a 5minute interview with a top media company to interview him on our product, but you'd need a PR person to go and get you that. You would need to create content to put into emails and whatever else. And so I think to your point, when someone does all of that work, it's also really dangerous cuz they're like, "Look how many hours and look how much time we've spent trying to create this landing page and this and this and this." And we're like, "Just just let the let the content do its thing and then use the content where you need it, right?" And and the most powerful thing you could do if you're B2B might be giving that content to your CEO to post on LinkedIn with a really clever message, >> right? Because it could just be a signaling thing, right? It could just be like, "Holy [ __ ] they got J like Jaylen Brunson's sponsoring, you know, workday or exit 5 or whatever." And and especially with LinkedIn, you can run thought leader ads. You can >> doesn't have to be them promoting it. You can basically you're signing an agreement to use their name and like name, image, and likeness in your marketing, which is like the, you know, one of the oldest tricks in the book, I guess. And the other thing I've seen is when people come to us and they're like, "We've never try, we're really good at um Tik Tok, but we're going to with you try YouTube and we're also going to try influencers." And I'm like, "No, no, no, no, no. If you're good at Tik Tok, let's find some people on Tik Tok to do the stuff that you already know to create content the way you want." And then once we've got the person, we might then use them to It's like It's almost like too many differentials all at the same time. So, it creates the difficulty test. And then there's also persona, right? Because it really is quite hard to know. Um, like I get it like I'm in favor of people coming to us and say, "Look, my vibe is really serious. Let's find someone who's quite funny to create a piece of content and you know, my marketing team can't do that." So, this but that goes back to, okay, let's spend your test budget on that. Definitely don't spend your whole brand ambassador of budget to get like Kevin Hart and it flops because you realize like being serious is really important to you as a brand. >> Yeah. Like it Yeah, that's interesting. So that that all has to match. I think the other thing is just time like wouldn't time matter if I I wouldn't want to sign a it's almost like there's two you don't I think the length here especially in B2B matters and it's like the the reach and frequency of of seeing this this stuff over time is what's going to move the needle not like did we make one video with Jay Jaylen Brunson and like hope that it goes viral and like what if it didn't like >> you know is someone going to wear our stuff and post our stuff even in our you know the way we've We've evolved our sponsorship business over the years is now we don't do any like allocart you know one-off stuff. We we work the the best pe the best companies that the companies that see the best results with our sponsorships is like one company's been renewing they've been doing three years in a row annually and it's like the reach and frequency and time o of that is what's moving the needle not like one I think there was an example of um do you remember when Snoop Dogg said he was like quitting quitting smoking or something and it was like actually just to uh announce like a partnership with Solo Stove like the like outside little fire fire pit, >> right? >> And uh that post went viral because everyone's like, "What's what? Snoop Dogg quit smoking." He's like, "Actually, no, I didn't, but I partnered with Solo Stove and it was like I think they posted about it and it basically provided a big dip in near in short-term sales, but then after that it was basically like it it never happened." And I I think that's that's not the goal. >> I think so. Exactly. To that point where even when you have like a spokesperson, it also ties to your messaging as a company because I'm sure the the the brand you mentioned who sponsored you for 3 years, the stuff you're doing in your ad reads or talking about today is so different to what you did 3 years ago. I mean, I know you nodded when I said like we've evolved as a company and so um a great example is we we've worked with I we worked with a health company and um they you know if you do your job well they've got enough patients and then they need to move on to a next problem then they need more doctors and then they might need more financing then they might need more customers again and so it's almost like how do you and this is what I love about social which is I can't even imagine the days where you used to create an ad and it would on for a year. Whereas like today, it's like you can literally get someone to create UGC for you, even if it's a long-term deal. Um, and what you're saying in Christmas time is very different to, you know, that might just be thank you very much for being great. This is like earnings calls. This is whatever else. And so I think the idea that um I I love one of the things that I love about the way that we do things is a lot of this testing and learning. Even if you like someone, keep going back every do three month deals. It can be a long-term partnership, but you kind of keep them honest to keep performing as well. Um, which especially in our world with athletes and influencers, like if they get bored or they go MIA or they delete their social media and you're like, "Oh my god, I'm in a contract with them and they've gone private because there's some news around them." And so I love the idea of like um the short bursts and you know sadly for athletes it's it's it's a bit of a a sad thing but like you can use that content for so long six months when you've got one post. I'm sure people are always constantly I mean we'll do it we'll be like we were on Dave show and it'll be like in six months time right and there that's like part part of the content game >> right or even just like recording that like getting the content from this can can be something. >> Yeah. Um, do you have specific examples or advice for the B2B marketers listening to this that maybe want to explore this channel? >> Yeah. Well, one, I think you should definitely do something influencer. There's so many influencer categories um that it's definitely worth doing. It's a really fun thing externally and internally. I would say when by that I mean having people talk about you. I mean, it's like journalism, right? Like, no one's ever upset with your CEO wants more PR, your state, your investors want more PR, your customers are happy with it. This is like a form of PR that doesn't rely on journalism. Um, and so, >> but do you feel like there's a there's a what are the variables in in success of that? Is it like you as a brand having an idea of what type of content you like really getting getting on the say like who drives that content strategy? For for example, like a brand reaches out to me and they just want me to post an ebook. That's different than like, hey, we actually have this really creative idea. Like, so you you live in Vermont and you do this thing and you like this thing and so the brand really relates. Like what's what's the variable for success there that people need to know about? >> I think for them it's they need to ideally know when they come in to have a conversation like for us, who's the audience you're targeting? And if and if it's someone different to who you already have that you're saturated with like kind of who is it and why. So audience makes a big difference. And then like what is success? And ideally it's as upper funnel as possible. So like you know is it is it just UGC that you can share that you can put on your website? Is it to build a bit more of a social media following because your investors care about it? Whatever. Like I would say those two things and then ideally some level of budget or like what are you going to be happy with? Because we have had brands who are like, I want to spend 10k and then they're unhappy if it's not like an A-lister and like those two things don't match up. After that, I would say, you know, us as an agency, let us do our job. Dave, if it was you, you're creative enough. I think if you got those three metrics, you would probably come back with a campaign that was creative enough for them. And then there's a bit of tinkering. Okay, what are the dos and don'ts? What are the disclosures? What are the hashtags that you definitely want to put in? Is it anything that you know you want to stay away from politics or you want to stay away from certain things? But like I think it's up to each individual and that that's what I have seen from our side that has been massive success for us is like the campaign for an equestrian is is very different to a mom influencer like Western Union is a a client and we've done campaigns with NFL players and we've also done campaigns with like um expats who've landed in New York and they give financial advice on like building wealth and those two videos are completely different but it's for the same campaign. It's driving the zero, you know, the zero transfer fee. They feel different. They look different. They have different audiences. And it would be wrong if Western Union had come to us and which they did it the first time was like, here's the brief. The second time they were like, okay, you guys decide a little bit more. >> Yeah. I get um I got one last week. It's like, "Hey, we'll send you to Salesforce's event, and you'll go to Salesforce's event, and you're going to post these uh but you, you know, we'll comp your ticket, but you got to post these four takeaways from the event." I'm like, "But is that what's the point of that? Is it is it just surround sound? Like, if you just get a bunch of influencers to post about the event, that helps with surround sound versus like, wouldn't you get more from that if we actually collaborated and did something that is more authentic to me and is on brand to me?" Now granted, they're probably just blasting that out to a bunch of people in a database. It's not an actual like onetoone relationship, but I kind of feel like that is that's what the differentiator is going to be. And I asked you this question earlier, but people are like, "Well, where do I I want to do influencer marketing, but where do I find influencers?" And I'm like, >> the number one way you find in you have to know your customer and you have to know your audience. And so you should know which >> which people your audience follows on TikTok, which podcasts they listen to, which YouTube channels they subscribe to, what are they reading, what are they interested in. And if you you're you're not going to be able to outsource that. I'm sorry. Like if you don't have a p if you don't have a finger on the pulse of what's interesting to your audience. There's no going to be like no magic database. It's like, oh, go reach out to these three people. Um I did an interview with this guy Chris who runs social media at ClickUp. They're a billion dollar SAS company. And he said his trick is he goes to Instagram and he finds Instagram creators that have had one or two viral videos but don't have a ton of followers. >> So they have the chops to like you know clearly and the algorithm on Instagram shows that video that video popped off that video had a million views but this person may only have >> 12,000 followers but they could be hired to make social media content for them. And that's a different way that's a better way to prove out that that model. Well, I also think it's interesting because I mean today even we use like claw to be like right what's a trending you can get the whole thing off. Um, so going back to your Salesforce example, I would say like the miss here is like that company ideally should come to you and say here is my goal. I I want to uh show that we are on ground at Salesforce or is it sales here's my goal. How do you help me hit it? And you would come up with like maybe two or three concepts. So this is the best way that our brands are working right now where they say here's my goal. influencer, creator, athlete, agency, whoever, or open sponsorship. Give me two or three concepts to say yes to >> and that is a it's more interesting for you. B anyone that knows you is like, "Oh, yeah, that's really on brand for Dave." Whereas like the other way someone's like, "Oh, he's being paid to do that." And that's where that whole like paidness comes in because it just doesn't feel on brand for anyone. And the third thing is again going back to value because we talk about this a lot. We have seen you go to an athlete or an influencer and you're like here's the campaign. Same brand um if one is like very medit like premeditated and they don't love it, the price could be up to double. And I'm sure you've had that if they were like you just do whatever you want. Go interview some cool people create some great content and we're paying for your ticket in your hotel. you'd be like, "This is a cool brief. I'm in. Here's my prize." If they're like, "Here's four posts. You have to do it. You have to do it on this day that time." You're like, "Yeah, this this feels like work." >> Yeah. And you have to do it. It's usually like, "And you have to do it while wearing an Adobe hat and use the hashtag Adobe partner." It's like, "Okay, well, like because then you run the am I willing to do that? Everything's got a price." You know, that >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> I I just think the opportunity is for most people listening, I think the opportunity is to It it goes back to social media which I think is the biggest most important trend you could be focusing on beyond AI if you're a B2B brand which is like content social it's the only way you have this amazing ability to reach your customers directly through social media and it's not social media you know 10 years ago it was like oh my you know my cousin is a social media intern and she runs social for us and it's like social media now is the way people get information and it is the way people buy even in B2B and so I'm going to use influencers to help spread our message. But the delta like the gap of of doing some kind of shitty thing with an influencer is just like okay cool. We got a little bit more reach on our social content because we had famous people post our stuff versus like when you see an influencer get a do a brand deal that like really is authentic or funny or interesting. It's like that's a 10x opportunity. And so I'd be like, what what's the opportunity for me in my niche, whether I'm in, you know, fintech, legal, tech, SAS, manufacturing, like all the people that listen to this podcast, how can we find a couple people in those >> that would make sense to team up with in those spaces? And and and instead of doing a one-off post, treat it like a longer campaign. I also on the back of that think what happens is there's a perception when you're saying that I think there'll be people at home going yeah but supplements is obvious or fashion is obvious or electronics is obvious but as I kind of mentioned before athletes and creators and influencers these are like they're like mini businesses right and they do have like legal issues they're at risk of being sued or they have health issues or they have kids and they have families so it's almost like um like we have this amazing social listening tool So we can like look into like has anyone talked about, you know, um being sued, right? And so like you can already like find people who are cuz so again back to your point, it's either the audience is a fit or or they are a fit through some story that Yeah. And it it could be as simple as they went to the same uh school as your CEO and it's like you know they come in and they interview the CEO and they're like former alumni and that be if if that's what you want to promote, right? Like the CEO. >> That's a good angle. I like that's an easy low low bear like you can find what are these different little patterns we can find to match up who might be a good fit. >> You just I think you're just trying to make your company feel like a real like um like have a personality, whatever that is. and like influencers, creators, athletes, basically, you know, if you pick Shack, you know that you're going for something larger than life. If you pick um you know, um well, I was going to go like Tiger Woods, but then I was like, right, let's stay away from that. But, you know, like there's basically like I remember when >> pick if you pick Tiger Woods, you're associating yourself with an addiction to sleeping medication and painkill pain pills. How's that? >> Exactly. Exactly. Well, I remember like there was like 2012 Olympics when Ryan Loy, I don't know if you remember him, the Olympic swimmer. He like made up a story that he got like there was he was in a heist at like the petrol station. It turned out he'd just been on a night out >> and like he was dropped by all his sponsors, but like a couple of people picked him up because they wanted like >> you could lean into that. >> Yeah, exactly. So, it's like basically let's bring your brand to life with with someone. That's one image. Two is let's have someone create some really interesting content for you. That's two. Three is let's tap into people because they've got the audience that you need. Like there are like literally today there are influencers for every single like legal tips and this tips and day trading. Actually, interestingly, we were trying to work with someone for day trading and they wanted to lean into the influencer for day trading, but those influencers were saying, "Well, we can't take payment for this because we're the experts on this. This is our day job. So, it would be so inauthentic to promote someone." So, that was really So again, like you know that perception that like well they'll just take money for anything is is not true. Um so I thought that was quite interesting but yeah there's I think there's loads of different reasons but you need to be clear and definitely don't come and say I want to get it all because that's when it fails. >> Uh f final thoughts anything I should have asked you or or missed or anything you want to you want to say before we before we hang up today? Well, suppose let me ask you why why do you think that you do hear more about B2B influencer marketing, but what why do you from your amazing experience with B2B marketers, right? Why do you feel like it's not as big as it could be? >> I think a couple things. One of them is probably just the we don't like to do things that are not directly instantly measurable. And so it's harder to be like, okay, if you know, Ishvan is a popular influencer in this space. >> Well, I'm going to have her post this link to our landing page because we're going to need to track how many sessions and conversions that we got directly from that. It's a little bit harder to like you almost have to let go of like it's not direct response marketing. It's much more brand marketing which is going to take time and you have to have a clearer opinion and strategy. And so I think oftentimes it's because we want to apply like the demand genen lens to it and we want to hire this person to be an influencer to create content because we need seven more sales meetings this month. >> Yeah. And and that's why the so I think it's a lot of the it's a lot around like what what's the right content, what's the right offer, who's the right person. It's much easier to justify spending, you know, 25 grand on Adwords because at least I can show the CFO or my boss or whoever. Even if the ads didn't convert, I can show traffic. I can show why it didn't convert. I there's there's a little bit more of a blackbox and um almost like zeroclick marketing strategy with doing an influencer deal. And then it's also this weird thing because if you want the influencer stuff to work, you have to forget all that stuff. And so it's like it's not going to work if you do that. And so just it's a little bit um I think the the people that do it well have really strong conviction and are willing to be creative and are willing to like test into something and and really and really try it versus like I think oftentimes we want it both. We want to like not spend the big budget, but we want to make sure it's perfectly trackable. Does does that make sense? You know what I'm trying to get at? >> Yeah. No, it's it it's so true. I think um on that note, be ready for your test to be a small test that produces small results and small wins and scale up. Um >> but know that like exactly that like it's not going to hit hit the same as a conference because >> I mean >> well even a conference a conference is a good example. conference is almost like influencer marketing in some way and I think a lot of times it's like >> if you the right people are at the conference but if you go to the conference and your booth sucks and you don't have an interesting offer like you're going to be like well this conference you we deal with it people are like well you know nobody scanned our badges at our booth and it's like is that is that a me problem is that a us problem or you problem like do we need to be more interesting and I think that's the 1% or that's the that's the 99% is like what's the offer how do we have the booth that everyone's going to go too. >> Yeah. Yeah. So true. Um well, no, >> I also think you can be too small. I think you could do a bunch of small tests where like I'm I'm biased to like I'd rather pick some find someone we really like, have a really good idea or something that we feel strong about, come up with a really creative campaign and go and do it and take a bigger swing. Then I think sometimes if you swing to if you if you if it's too small, then you're like, "Oh, we didn't really notice anything." And then you have no conviction to like spend more and go bigger. I know that's much riskier, but that's how kind of I'm much more um impulsive. I'd rather [laughter and clears throat] I'd rather go all in and do something big and like deal with the repercussions of that not working out than like I think sometimes in marketing you can do >> too many things too small when you should just really do one or two bigger things and like make a big bet and and make it you also then are forced to make something work versus we did this tiny thing and it didn't work like >> yeah let's move on yeah um I think we also like kind of slightly touched on it but like the fact that Reddit, LinkedIn um all of these are really important important and also today when you think about like AI search engine optimization it's not what it used to be with Google and so I think there's like this element of like influencer again it's creating content that sends signals that people are talking about you and they do scrape social a lot um like we have just started a Reddit uh commenting strategy to improve our like search results through AI so I think again you anyway having to think about all these other things, why not take someone who is an expert to help you out? >> Yeah, I love it. Okay. Uh Ishvali, thank you for coming on the pod. We'll put you in the we'll link we'll link to you on LinkedIn. I'm sure you'll get a bunch of connections and and questions about this. Um goal in doing this episode was to give people an overview. I want get people to start thinking about life beyond Google and Meta. >> And there are other ways to spend your money. And I do think that in marketing if you want to reach more people you do have to spend it's like I used to always take pride in we don't spend any money we're scrapped and it's like well eventually you come up in the you start to play a bigger game and you do need to spend money to make money and I love this idea of influencers in B2B especially with the the trend of sports and it's interesting to hear how you don't see it just as sports you see every industry now has these influencers and I think it's a really interesting interesting time so thanks for coming on the pod >> thank you so much >> appreciate
